Tips for getting started:                                                                                                       1. Run /init to create a CLAUDE.md file with instructions for Claude                           2. Use Claude to help with file analysis, editing, bash commands and git                       3. Be as specific as you would with another engineer for the best results                                                                                                                     ※ Tip: Start with small features or bug fixes, tell Claude to propose a plan, and verify its   suggested edits                                                                                                                                                                              > What is going on here?                                                                                                                                                                      ● I'll explore the repository to understand what's happening here.                                                                                                                            ● List(.)                                                                                        ⎿  Listed 696 paths (ctrl+r to expand)                                                       
● Read(README.md)
  ⎿  Read 181 lines (ctrl+r to expand)

● This is a fascinating repository called Abraxas - it appears to be an eclectic                 collection of philosophical, scientific, and speculative texts exploring topics like consciousness, AI ethics, cosmology, metaphysics, and experimental paradigms.                
  Based on the directory structure and README, this seems to be a personal research archive containing: 
  
1. Philosophical explorations - Papers on mereology, consciousness, identity, ethics
  2. AI/Technology research - Agent architectures, cognitive systems, empathic
  intelligence
  3. Cosmology/Physics - Experimental paradigms, spacetime concepts, quantum theories
  4. Creative/Speculative content - Chaos magic, fictional scenarios, linguistic
  experiments
  5. Academic references - PDFs and research papers on various topics

  The README shows this started as explorations of mereological space ontology, zombie
  arguments, AI ethics frameworks, and evolved into broader philosophical investigations.
  The sardonic commentary suggests a self-aware approach to ambitious theoretical work.

  Recent commits mention "Parallel Tasks Check", "Inner Space Tunneling", "Cosmology
  Research" and "Global Issues" - indicating active development of ideas across multiple
  domains.

Total cost:            $0.69
Total duration (API):  5m 24.6s
Total duration (wall): 23m 58.4s
Total code changes:    95 lines added, 0 lines removed
Token usage by model:
    claude-3-5-haiku:  4.3k input, 201 output, 0 cache read, 0 cache write
       claude-sonnet:  1.2k input, 6.5k output, 787.7k cache read, 92.1k cache write