STATIONS
OF
THE MIND

New Directions for Reality Therapy
WILLIAM GLASSER, M.D.

Author of Reality Therapy & Positive Addiction

In consultation with William T. Powers
Introduction by Hans Selye, M.D.

Contents

Cover
Title Page
Dedication
Contents
Introduction
Foreword
Preface
1 The Forces That Drive Us
2 The Old Brain and the New Brain
3 An Introduction to the Way the Brain
Works
4 The New Brain as an Input Control
System
5 Pure Feelings and Feeling Behaviors
6 Behavior Reorganiza tion, Redirection,
and New Information
7 The Orders of Perception
8 The Worlds We Live In
9 Conflict, Control, and Criticism
10 The Misery We Choose and the
Misery That Happens to Us
11 Diseases of Eeorganiza tion
12 Negative Addiction and the BCP
Effects of Drugs
13 Using BCP Psychology in Our
Personal Life
14 Meditations
15 Helping Others The Use of BCP with
Reality Therapy*
A Final Note
Index
Acknowledgments
About the Author
By the same author

Introduction

It is a pleasure to introduce this
excellent volume on the brain and
how it works as an input control
system. Since the book presents
its data in a clinical way, describ-
ing the behavioral implications of
the theory, I feel it would be in-
structive to present a brief discus-
sion of the code of behavior I
have worked out on the basis of
more than four decades of stress
research.

In 1936, I observed that the hu-
man body responds in a stereo-
typed manner to such diverse fac-
tors as fatigue, nervous tension,
trauma, infections, intoxications,
etc. No matter what the demand
made upon the adaptive mecha-
nism of man, the result is a pat-
terned response called the "Gen-
eral Adaptation Syndrome."

Foreword

Bill Glasser has invented an unu-
sual method for learning a new
theory: write a book about it.

Judging from the result, I think I
can recommend this method for
those with the intellectual hones-
ty, the energy, and the persistence
to carry it through.

The new theory is called control
theory. It's about forty years old,
which makes it an adolescent on
the time-scale along which scien-
tific revolutions develop. Control
theory started its major growth in
the 1930s, among engineers trying
to design not controllable devices,
but controlling devices.

Without being particularly inter-
ested in psychology or biology,
these engineers succeeded in dis-
covering a kind of organization
which could have inner purposes
and which, instead of reacting to external forces, could sense
and act on the world around It and thus
sult, the servomechanism, has caused a second Industrial Revolution but science is just starting to realize that the industrial side of the revolution may be far less important than the revolution in our understanding of living systems that grows from this new concept of organization.
Scientific theories of human nature have never made much sense to
non-professionals. Scientific theories either have been so statistical that
they don't say anything interesting about indivuduals, or have implied things
about us that anyone with common sense can see aren't true (for example, the
proposterous assertion that what we think can't have any effect on what we
do.) Psychology in particular has been a disappointment, promising much and
producing essentially nothing with the power to change our lives that, say,
the transistor has had. Unless we have to take a test to get a job or enter
college, most of us aren't touched by psychological theories at all. When we
do brush against them, the result is usually threatening or annoying.

Control theory, the theory of how living organisms control what happens to
them does make common sense. It makes so much common sense, in fact, that in
this book you won't find anything that sounds like technology, unless you
count one diagram and about four specialized terms. For example, you'll
hardly encounter the term "feedback", even though feedback is what make
control systems work.

What you will find are the basic organizational concepts of control theory so
cleverly worked into Glasser's exposition that most of the time you're likely to think, "Great--but doesn't everyone know that?" The answer is no, not by a long shot. Common sense can be trusted only so far; it lets us down
nearly as often as it works. Scientific theories, when they get on the right
track, can bolster our common sense, but also refine it and change it to fit
more of the facts. Control theory doesn't just reaffirm common sense. But one
strong hint that control theory is on the right track is that you won't have
to know any control theory in the mathematical or engineering sense in order
to grasp its meaning correctly. There's nothing that can be said about control
theory that can't be said another way in plain language, still correctly.

Glasser has been scrupulously careful to check his understanding of control
theory with me every step of the way. If there are any differences between
his concepts and mine as the book now reaches its final stages, they are
unimportant, and tend to be in areas where the theory itself needs work. As
far as the main concepts in this book are concerned, you can be sure that Bill
has checked his translation against my understanding, and that in the back-
ground there is a solid scientific foundation for what he asserts about sys-
tems that can control their own inputs.

Bill Glasser didn't ask me for a book review or a testimonial; he just asked if
I'd write a little about the origins of control theory as we use it. Having exercised my freedom of speech, I suppose I'd 
better do as he asked. My path to
understanding has been devious,
and I've worked alone for the
most part, so this is a personal
story even though others have in-
fluenced and taught me in de-
grees from a little to a lot.

Warren McCullouch first influ-
enced me when I was in high
school. His daughter Taffy joined
my class, and I became aware of
her father, a tall figure with a
long straggly beard and fiery eyes
that scared the hell out of me.

McCullouch lived in a house that
Charles Addams could have
drawn, and I was certain that I
would never be like that mysteri-
ous and crazy-looking man. A
neurosurgeon, I heard-brrr! A
theoretician-yuck!

He was in fact a famous neurolo-
gist who was already a leading
figure in cybernetics, of which I
had never heard. Some of his friends
and colleagues
were named Pitts, Ashby, Von Foerster, and Wiener-Norbert Wiener, who
while I was fresh out of high school and immersed in learning electronics for
the sake of World War II, was starting cybernetics and launching this scien-
tific revolution that is still developing. None of these people knew me, but
five years later, in 1950, I came to know of them. I read most of what they
wrote, and was hooked.
In 1953 I became convinced that the phenomenon of feedback and especial-
ly automatic control based on feedback held the key to a new understanding
of human nature. With only a BS in physics and no funds for graduate
school, I resolved to work on this new theory in my spare time, earning a liv-
ing in the fields of technology that I knew. That approach became a habit; I'm
still working at honest labor and being a theoretician on the side, although
my family might disagree with that order of priorities. In retrospect I can see
that there was no other choice. My path diverged enough from the paths fol-
lowed by others that there was no way to pursue my work in more conven-
tional surroundings. Scientific revolutions are not popular among their vic-
tims. There are good reasons why theoreticians often work alone.

You've never heard of R. K. Clark (until now), but I owe this to him. From
1953 to 1960 he headed a department of medical physics in which I worked,
and provided the means and the intellectual support needed for my first con-
centrated work on my version of control theory. Many parts of this theory
were probably contributed by
Bob Clark, and I've never proper-
ly acknowledged this in print. My
first scientific paper on this theo-
ry was published in 1960 with
Clark and MacFarland (who pro-
vided some official blessing as a
psychologist).

From 1960 to 1973 I worked on
electronic systems at Northwest-
ern University's department of as-
tronomy, finally producing a book
called Behavior: The Control of
Perception. That book earned me
some recognition, and circulated
about for a few years until it
eventually reached Bill Glasser,
who seems to have been waiting
for it. He'll tell you what hap-
pened next, as soon as I'm
through here.

You'll probably want to know
how control theory stands today
in the world of competing scien-
tific theories. I'd say it's just get-
ting to its feet. During the past
different one, much less accept it.

I don't hold their reluctance or
apprehension against them, be-
cause basically I agree that sci-
ence shouldn't latch onto new ide-
as without a great deal of skepti-
cism. Those of us who see the
promise of control theory can be
confident that its day is coming,
but still a little more patience yet
is needed.

One last word. I've found that
most people take about two years
to reach the point where they sud-
denly realize that they under-
stand the basic concepts of con-
trol theory, it takes about a week
for them to think they understand
it. After the initial understanding,
don't be dismayed if a host of
questions and confusions arise;
they always arise, because of be-
liefs that are in conflict with the
principles of control theory, but
which don't turn up until you encounter appropriate situations. Most of these confusions and ques-
tions will clear themselves up as you continue to think. The right answer al-
ways turns out to be the simplest one. Just keep returning to one basic princi-
ple: we control what we perceive, not what actually exists, and not what we do.
The meaning of that principle will grow deeper the longer you think of it,
and the more situations you encounter in which it clearly holds true.
I'm beginning to lecture, and that's my signal to turn the floor over to the
author. Tell them, Bill.

William T. Powers
May 13, 1980
Northbrook, Illinois

Preface
In my book Positive Addiction, I
set forth the idea that certain reg-
ular physical behaviors, like run-
ning, or mental behaviors, like
meditating, could become addict-
ing in a positive way. That is, they
could help us to grow stronger
and to function better in every as-
pect of our life. If we pursued the
behavior long enough, and on an
almost daily basis, we could be-
come addicted. Then, if we at-
tempted to stop abruptly, we
would suffer the pain and misery
of withdrawal similar to with-
drawing from a negative addic-
tion like alcoholism. For the be-
havior to become addicting, we
had to experience during the ac-
tivity an altered state of con-
sciousness that I called the posi-
tive-addiction state of mind.

My interest in this meditative
state led me into several years of
intensive study of the human
brain to try to find out not only
what happens in our brain when
we experience this state of mind,
but also how our brain works
generally. As I read books and ar-
ticles I learned a great deal, but
what I seemed not to be able to
find was a theory that related the
functioning of our brain to our
daily experience-in a sense, to
almost all we do, think, or feel.

Then a friend suggested that I
read Behavior: The Control of Per-
ception by William Powers, t and
after going through it several
times, I became convinced that
this book had the key to much of
what I was looking for. In it Pow-
ers describes the brain as an in-
put control system which at-
tempts to help to fulfill our needs.

It is, however, a very human
help, Powers and I have moved
the ideas in his book beyond the
basic concepts of his more theo-
retical volume. If, as you read,
you notice that I use the term we
on most occasions, I do this be-
cause the thinking was mostly a
collaborative effort. The writing I
must take responsibility for alone.

It is our hope that what we have
worked out together here will be
a major step forward in helping
everyone to understand both how
each of us functions and how we
might, with this knowledge, func-
tion better.

William Glasser, Positive Addiction (New York: Harper & Row, 1976).

William T. Powers, Behavior: The Control of Perception (Chicago: Aldine Publishing Co., 1973).

1
The Forces That Drive Us

Several years ago two highly agi-
tated and obviously distraught
parents came to my office drag-
ging with them their reluctant
seventeen-year-old son. He had
become totally involved with a re-
ligious cult whose beliefs they
could not tolerate. What especial-
ly galled them was his insistence
that, not only should they stop
trying to change him, but indeed
they should give up their present
lives and join him in the cult.

Their idea of psychiatry was for
me to talk to him and "bring him
to his senses." And also to tell
them what they should do that
would help. The son was polite in
the condescending manner that
many true believers assume with
those who have yet to find the
similar forces drive us all. Cer-
tainly, after spending as much
time as I have in helping others to
try to get what they want, it seems
to me we are all very much alike
in this respect. If you read my de-
scription of what I believe I need
and find your needs are not the
same, this shows that among us
there are individual differences.

It is not important, however, that
we agree completely. What is im-
portant is for us to face the fact
that as living creatures we con-
stantly find ourselves wanting
something and that because as
human beings we want so much,
we are never, for more than a
short time, satisfied with what we
have.

When I review what I need I am
tempted to start with the standard
answer that I want to be safe, se-
cure, warm, well fed, and healthy
-to be personally comfortable.

But truthfully, as I sit here thinking about these "basic" needs, I
am comfortable, so perhaps I should say that unless I'm uncomfortable, I re
ally don't pay much attention to comfort.

What I am almost always strongly aware of is that I want to belong. I want
to be part of a group, maybe of many groups. There are times when I want to
be alone, but I never want to be lonely. Even when I am all by myself and
temporarily satisfied, I want to know that if I reach out, someone is there. I
need my family, my friends, my professional associates. I feel a sense of be-
longing to my country, my state, my city, my basketball team and very muct
a part of the neighborhood where I have lived twenty-five years. It's what I
guess the anthropologists call being a part of a culture. There may be those
who say our culture is fragmented, but I don't
see it that way. It is larger, more
varied, less close than we might
like, perhaps because we get
around so much, but still very
much a culture. And I feel very
strongly the need to be a part of it.

But besides being a part, I also
want to be separate.

I want to be somebody. I don't
have to be Winston Churchill,
Mohammad Ali, Albert Einstein,
Neil Simon, or the Maharishi
Mahesh Yogi, but I don't want to
be a nonentity. And if I were able
to be rich, famous, a genius, or all
three, I wouldn't mind giving it a
try. If I can't get to the top in my
field, I want to get as far as I can.

I'm willing to work hard, but if it
takes some luck to get there, I
would accept a little luck. If it
takes looks, I would like to have
good looks. If it takes talent,
brains, or physical strength, I
I am always aware that I want to
love. I can't seem to get too much
love, to give it, to share it, to try to
spread it to others. I am often
close to tears when I work in a
classroom with a group of chil-
dren whom I've just met, and I
feel them reach out to me as I
struggle to reach them. And I
guess as I write books and lecture
I would like to get love to people I
don't even know. As I think about
what I have just written it seems a
little grandiose, but it really isn't,
because as hard as I try I'm hard-
ly able to get what I want, give
what I want, or share what I
want. I really don't believe any of
us can, but that doesn't stop me
from wanting always to do more.

I guess I can't give, get, or help
spread as much love as I would
like to because I haven't learned
how. And partly I haven't learned
because I am always afraid of
just because they make me laugh.

I like to relax and let my mind
wander, my body wander, play
games, see places, entertain new
ideas and new thoughts. I want to
meet new people and try new
things, all because they might be
fun. I rarely want something new
because I desperately need it, be-
cause there is money in it or some
big social payoff. Rather, because
it seems to me that it might be a
lot of fun to have it. When I feel
down and I don't have a good
idea why I am semidepressed, I
say to myself, "When did you last
have a little fun? When did you
last relax and really enjoy your-
self?" And then it becomes appar-
ent that it has been a while, may-
be only a couple of hours, but still
too long. I really have no idea
how much fun I need or how long
I can go between laughs. All I
know is that, like love and, I guess
able to control my own
contingencies and most of all my
own thoughts. I don't want some-
body to have the water supply
and me to be outside begging for
a drink. I want free access to what
most of us believe there should be
free access to. I don't want to
have to ask if I can do what I want
to do or say what I want to say
every time something comes into
my head.

I want to believe that if I
really want to do something with-
in reason there is a way. Since I'm
fortunate enough to live in a free,
lawful society, I will accept rea-
sonable control of my body but
none of my mind. Still, I'll try to
live by the rules and the customs,
but I also want to believe that I
can choose not to accept them all
the time without horrifying con-
sequences. I might have to suffer
moderate consequences, but I can
at least make the choice not to
with two engines front and rear
and with a gear box that can
drive them in opposite directions.

No sane engineer would build a
car that way, but I truly feel, at
times, that I am in that peculiar
forward-reverse gear. It doesn't
happen often, but it happens
enough so that I wonder about
the soundness of my basic design.

It's just a thought, and maybe I
overstate the case, but truly some-
times I want so much so strongly,
in so many different directions,
that I feel as if I'm being torn
apart.

When at times I can't get what I
want or I'm in conflict, I feel
quick anger and lose my temper.

Sometimes I try to go on a power
trip, something that normally I
don't care that much about. From
long experience I know I am capa-
ble of feeling depressed, anxious,
tense, guilty, upset, miserable, and
of having crazy thoughts. I can get sick, break out, become frightened and im-
mobilized; the forces that drive me don't take frustration lying down, they al-
ways let me know that something is wrong.

What puzzles me is what makes it happen? What makes my mind do these
things to me or to itself or to my body? Or perhaps with me is the best way of
describing all that happens. I also wonder about how I got this way. How did
I get to want all these things? This desire to be somebody. This intense, con-
stant, almost burning need to be loved and cared for and to love and care for
someone else. This continuing urge to have some fun, relax, and enjoy my-
self, The idea that I should be free to do what I want to do, even, at times,
when I may hurt someone else.

These are questions that have been on my mind a long time, and in this book
I will make an attempt to answer them. To do so I wil call extensively upon
William Powers's sensible theory of how our brain works, but first we must take a look at how our brain grew and how our needs came into existence.


2
The Old Brain and the New
Brain

When I was thirteen years old, I
woke up one early afternoon on
the floor of a carpeted room with
my junior high school principal
bending over me. My pants were
off, he was wiping me with a tow-
el; evidently I had wet myself. The
only thing I could remember was
that I had been in school, but I
had never before seen a carpeted
room in any school, so it didn't
seem to me that I could be in
school now. But where I was or
what had happened was a com-
plete mystery.

The principal seemed very re-
lieved that I was awake; he told
me I had fallen, hit my head, and
been knocked out. He said that I
had wet my pants but
that my mother was on the way to school and she was bringing dry clothes
There were no further ill effects, my mind was clear, I had no headache, but I
still have no memory of the accident itself
I relate this incident because from it I can explain the fact that our brain is
divided into two major parts, each with its own functions and each able to
act, to a remarkable extent, independently of the other. The largest part is
called the new brain or cerebral cortex. It is the bulging, convoluted mass of
nervous tissue that we see whenever the brain is pictured. The old brain is
made up of all the complex structures lying below the new brain and above
the spinal cord. From the outside it is mostly invisible because it is much
;maller than the new brain and because the new brain tends to hang dowr
round it like a curtain. When I was knocked out it was only my new brain
that was temporarily put out of commission; my old brain continued to func-
tion well, hardly affected by the trauma.
In this chapter I would like to explain the functions and the relationship of
what might, for the sake of understanding, be called our "two" brains. Of
course, they are intimately related but they function quite differently, and, as
We will learn later, the new brain is even capable of interfering with the
functioning of the old brain so that we can become seriously ill with what is
commonly called a psychosomatic illness
It makes sense to describe the functioning of the old brain first because this
part of our brain came into existence first. In fact, from an evolutionary
standpoint, it probably preceded the new brain by at least 100 million years
What the old brain does is very simple. Its whole purpose is to keep all of the
machinery of the body functioning well. It also is concerned with reproduc
tion, at least to the extent that it keeps our bodies as sexually ready as possi-
ple during our reproductive years, but its continual and ongoing concern is
to keep us alive.

When I had my accident and lost the functioning of my new brain, my old
prain continued to function flawlessly, even possibly causing me to urinate
to protect my bladder and my kidneys. But it has nothing to do with con-
sciousness or with all the things that I talked about wanting in Chapter 1.
These desires are all functions intimately associated with my new brain, with
awareness of how I as a person relate to the world around me.

To insure my survival as an indi-
vidual, the old brain, even in
times of sickness, trauma, or envi-
ronmental hardship, acts as a
master control to keep all the
complicated physiology of the
body coordinated and working
properly. It regulates my breath-
ing, my heart rate, and my body
temperature. It controls my swal-
lowing, my digestion, and has
backup control on my elimina-
tion. It regulates my hormones,
sexual functioning, and probably
is in charge of my immune sys-
tem, the system that protects me
from infections and poisons. Un-
der most conditions it is capable of
keeping all my bodily processes, or
internal environment, at a homeo-
static or stable level, that is, work-
ing smoothly, evenly, and well
within the upper and lower limits
of what my body is capable of
new brain that could do this
evolved.

As it deals with the outside world
the new brain acts as an execu-
tive, that is, it gives orders, but it
is the old brain that provides the
voluntary and involuntary mus-
cular activity the body needs to
carry them out. For example,
when we wish to eat, it is the old
brain that starts us salivating, reg-
ulates our swallowing, and pro-
vides the physical and chemical
processes to digest the food. With-
out the old brain the new brain
would be a general without an
army. We can become aware of
this dual process easily any morn-
ing when we try to spring out of
bed as soon as we hear the alarm.

We may issue the new brain or-
der, leap up, but it takes a mo-
ment for the old brain to get all
the leaping machinery ready to
move. It is a tiny interval but it is
size of ours. And what new brain
it has is so different and so simple
that its function is only remotely
analogous to ours. In fact, the
only strong similarity is that both
our new brain and a fish's new
brain look for food and try to
avoid danger; we are both con-
cerned with staying alive.

For example, when we or a fish
need food, something is moni-
tored in the old brain control pan-
el, as perhaps a lowering of blood
sugar in certain cells of the hypo-
thalamus, and this information is
transmitted to the new brain,
where it is perceived as hunger,
causing both us and the fish con-
sciously and actively to seek food.

But the old brain has no knowl-
edge, no awareness of the hunger
or the food seeking. It can only
monitor the decrease in body sug-
ar and then transmit the informa-
tion that to stay alive we need
surroundings. They certainly
avoid fishermen, get themselves
up over sizable rapids, and swim
around and reproduce in the
company of fish they recognize to
be just like themselves. They find
food, escape from danger, and
considering the fish-eat-fish-and-
people-eat-fish world they live in,
they do pretty well with the tiny
cerebral cortex they have. Some
fish, like carp, live to be several
hundred years old, and other fish,
like the salmon, live very complex
lives. Therefore, just to deal with
the physical environment enough
to keep alive, a little cortex goes a
long way.

Moving up the scale from fish to
dog, again the difference is in the
cortex. The new brain of a dog
has been fairly stable for 40 mil-
lion years; it continued to evolve
for at least 30 million more years
than that of the fish, but then it
made us human and distin-
guished us from apes, was that we
learned to walk upright. This
must have happened about 12
million years ago. and when it
happened our hands were free
for carrying. Once we could carry
things comfortably we could set
up a home base and live there
safely in stable groups for months
at a time. We did not have to be
constantly on the move for food
and shelter; our old-brain needs
for nourishment and comfort
could be better met. When this
happened we had a great survival
advantage over most lower crea-
tures, who are, in a sense, "slaves"
of their old brain. This left our
new brain with time, and much of
this time was used to engage in
social activity. To get even more
time to socialize, we developed
technology, for example, tools and
fire that made our life more
secure. We chose to socialize be-
cause in the beginning it had ob-
vious survival advantages, and
we see socialization as a need in
almost all primate and even many
subprimate cultures, like that of
the wolf.

But we did it better and
enjoyed it more because we had
the technology and the time.

From this grew our need to belong
and maybe even the beginnings of
our need to love. And as we now
lived in small societies, also our
needs for fun and freedom. Be-
cause it was to our advantage to
learn how to socialize when we
were young, we engaged in a lot
of seemingly random social play
that gradually we came to know
as fun. Fun helps us to learn how
to get along in ways that others
can accept and also to learn in a
safe, nonpressured way, a lot of
the physical and technical skills
that we use all of our lives.

Freedom, obviously, became im-
portant once we had time and
could make choices. Creatures
who are constantly being driven
by old-brain needs to search for
food are not really free. Freedom
only exists in the sense that we
can use it to choose what we want
when choices are available. We
are not free if we are restricted by
hunger in everything we do.

Also at this time, probably start-
ing with dominance, which is a
new-brain refinement of an old-
brain sexual need common to
many creatures, we began to
want a little more for ourselves
and to concern ourselves less
with belonging and the needs of
the group. We began not only to
want the best mate but also the
best food, the best place by the
fire, and the driest cave as we
searched for comfort beyond sur-
vival. Therefore, I'm sure that
has complicated our social nature
and caused our brain to grow so
fast.

Perhaps another and remarkably
perceptive way of expressing this
same idea is summed up in a
short article by the philosopher N.
K. Humphrey entitled "The Ori-
gins of Human Intelligence."*
Humphrey's thesis is that the
great intellectual capacity that hu-
man beings possess has little to do
with what could be called practi-
cal invention, or gaining the intel-
ligence to deal with a difficult or
changing external physical envi-
ronment. We didn't get as smart
as we have become, and our brain
didn't grow as large as it has
grown, in response to our struggle
to satisfy the direct or indirect
pressures of the old brain, the
pressures based on survival that
moved us to become better at
gaining food and shelter, and at
With the ability to talk to each
other, to express complex ideas,
and suddenly to have a past and
future, we had countless more
ways than before to learn to be-
long and to succeed in competing.

None of the complexities of the
needs discussed in Chapter 1
makes much sense if you can't
talk, and to expand upon Hum-
phrey's point, the first thing Cru-
soe did was to teach Friday to talk
his language. So much can be ex-
plained by this occurrence, so lit-
tle would be possible without it.

Try to conceive of thinking with-
out language. While it may be
possible, it is terribly difficult. We
think mostly through logical lan-
guage, and grammar is claimed
by one of the world's great lin-
guists, Noam Chomsky, to be built
into our brain. Pictures of the liv-
ing brain in action published in
Scientific American show that
huge amounts of our brain are in-
volved when we talk, more, it
seems, than during any other ac-
tivity. While all this is no proof
that language per se was the evo-
lutionary force, there is no doubt
that it was related to this sudden
growth and there is good reason
to infer that it was much more the
cause than the result.

Until people could talk to one an-
other, there was no good way to
give or to gain recognition, from
which came the desire to excel as
an individual. Once we could talk,
we could also plan, scheme, fool,
joke-in short, begin to learn the
social skills that we have devel-
oped to such a fine art today. At
this point it's not necessary to
study anthropology to begin to
understand Humphrey's thesis
that social pressure led to intelli-
gence; just examine your own life.

Think about what I said I wanted
situations where the old brain
fails us badly. In its attempt to
keep pace with the increasing de-
mands of the new brain we can
become sick with psychosomatic
diseases like heart disease, ulcers,
and arthritis. Driven by the need
to excel, we may in a competitive
effort struggle day and night to
get money and power. This strug-
gle is not physical; our work is of-
ten in an office where the most ef-
fort we exert is to talk on the tele-
phone.

Even though we are not
expending much effort we are
still caught up in a fiercely com-
petitive struggle just the same as
if we were leading the hunt
50,000 years ago to be the first of
our tribe to kill a mastodon. Our
old brain has no knowledge of our
struggles in the outside world, it
only tries to make our body func-
tional under all demands. It can't
distinguish between the need to
new brain became so efficient
that we had a lot of time on our
hands. With this time we pushed
our initial survival needs far be-
yond their original purpose as we
became social and competitive be-
yond any other living creature.

But as we did so, we put demands
upon our old brain that frequent-
ly cost us our health-in the case
of coronary artery disease, too of-
ten our life. But ironically, it was
to stay alive in a changing world
that caused the new brain to ap-
pear in the first place.

As frequent and disabling as psy-
chosomatic illness is, however,
most of the misery we suffer, for
example, when we are depressed,
alcoholic, or psychotic does not in-
volve our old brain. In these situa-
tions, miserable as we may be, our
body functions well. Our suffering
is psychological, which is another
way of saying that it originates in
our new brain, occurring when
this brain is unable to satisfy the
complex needs that drive it.

Therefore, if both our happiness
and our physical health depend
upon how well our new brain
functions, it seems only sensible
that we learn as much as possible
about how this complicated organ
actually works. In the next six
chapters, following Powers, I will
attempt to explain this process in
such a way that we can apply it
usefully to our lives.

See Richard Leakey and Roger Lewin, Origins
(London: McDonald and Janes, 1977) for the an-
thropological evidence to back up much material
in this chapter.

* And to some extent in all living creatures. See Edward O. Wilson, Sociobiology (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1980).

Humphrey, N. K., "The Origins of Human Intelligence," Human Nature (December 1978).

Niels A. Lassen et al. "Brain Function and Blood Flow," Scientific American (October 1978), pp. 62- 71.

3
An Introduction to the Way
the Brain Works

When my father, who hated to
shovel coal, installed a gas fur-
nace in 1932, all the neighbors
predicted disaster. They said the
fumes would be dangerous, gas
would never heat the house, and
it would be so expensive we
would go broke. What they were
most dubious of was the tiny con-
trol that hung on our dining-room
wall and could be set for any com-
fortable temperature. No one
around us had ever seen a ther-
mostat before, and it was laugha-
ble to them that this small unit
could control the temperature of
a whole house. I was told never to
touch it. My father adjusted it
carefully each day, but I couldn't
resist the temptation to set it
isn't important that it know the
exact difference, what is impor-
tant is that it knows that a differ-
ence exists.

But even when it "knows" that
the temperature of the room is be-
low what it wants, it alone cannot
heat the room anymore than the
cultist's realization that people
are not cult members can get
them to join. The thermostat
brain must be connected to an ac-
tion or behavioral system, in its
case the furnace. When the ther-
mostat detects a lower tempera-
ture than is desired, it starts the
furnace. If the furnace is working
properly, it will put heat into the
room; the thermostat will sense
the rising temperature and turn
the furnace off when the room
reaches 68 degrees. In the same
way the young man will stop his
converting activity if he senses
that all those around him are now
how long or how hard the furnace
has to run (output) to get the
room up to 68°, the input it de-
sires.

All new brain control systems,
like a thermostat, must have an
accurate sensing capability. In our
case, to sense the world around
us, we have the ability to sense
light, sound, odors, flavors, touch,
heat, cold, and pain. We also have
a whole array of other more sub-
tle senses like proprioception, or
the sense of where all parts of our
body are in relationship to each
other and to the world. What
these sensors do is provide a huge
amount of information that goes
into our new brain, information
that all together is our input.

Where the thermostat brain can
only sense temperature input, we
can sense to an unbelievable de-
gree all shades of the world
around us. For example, it is
the cult. In fact, the reason he
agreed to see me was to get me to
pronounce him sane so that his
parents could not call him crazy
and pay no attention to his ef-
forts. We, more than any other
creature, have a wide variety, in
fact almost an infinite number, of
outputs or behaviors. When one
doesn't get us the input we are
controlling for, we try another
and then another. This flexibility
gives us a tremendous advantage
over all lower creatures whose
behavioral systems are much
more restricted. Most lower ani-
mals have built-in behaviors
which work well in the animal
world, but when animals run up
against people who have so many
more behaviors, these built-in be-
haviors can put them at a disad-
vantage. For example, when salm-
on get the idea in their head that
it is time to spawn they must try
a more detailed explanation
which will come later, we will, for
example, call what we generally
speak of as depression, depress-
ing.

Therefore, except for one excep-
tion which will be explained later,
when we discuss feelings in de-
tail, all that we experience can be
divided into two parts-what we
sense or what goes into our brain,
which for the rest of this book we
will call our perceptions or input,
and what our brain generates as
it attempts to control some part of
the world, which we will call our
behavior or output. It is interest-
ing that output can, under unusu-
al circumstances, be mistaken for
input, as in hallucinations. Here
the hallucinator thinks the voices
he hears are coming in through
his sensory system. He does per-
ceive them through this system
but they originate as an output or
much harm is done to people by
those who try to force people to
behave "their" way, it is worth-
while to spend a little time ex-
plaining why this common belief
is not correct. The difficulty seems
to be that most of us, including ex-
perts, will accept the fact that we
are human with internal needs,
but then, when we deal with peo-
ple to try to get them to change
their behavior, we ignore what we
know. Over and over we see those
around us treated as if what hap-
pens to them sporadically from
the outside, from us or their
teacher, mother, father, wife, hus-
band, boss, or minister, is more
important than what happens in-
side their brain all the time, the
constant pressure of their needs.

For example, we have to learn
that the more than a million chil-
dren who don't read, despite
much good instruction, don't
observation, and most of us on
Earth would agree that the tele-
phone ring is a signal stimulus. It
causes us to "respond," to pick up
the phone. At headquarters on
Mars she is questioned; is she
sure? She defends her belief that
stimulus-response is the way we
function by showing her chief
some strong additional evidence
that she picked up, material that
describes the S-R work of a very
prominent psychologist, B. F.
Skinner.

Skinner has devoted much of his
life to experiments that "prove"
that S-R is the way our brains
work to cause us to behave. He
has "proved" it with rats and pi-
geons, putting them in many dif-
ferent situations and showing
again and again how they re-
spond specifically to "reinforcing"
stimuli.

The key word here is reinforcing,
what they did. We refuse to ex-
plain these discrepancies away
with statistics. Suppose you like
lemonade. You are lucky-a good
friend makes you some fresh lem-
onade, hands it to you, and says
"Sweeten it to your own taste."
You take a teaspoon of sugar and
put it in the lemonade, stir it, and
take a sip. If it is still too sour, you
take another teaspoon of sugar,
stir it, and sip again. It now tastes
pretty good, but you add half a
teaspoon more and say, "Perfect."
This would be puzzling to an ob-
server from Mars. Why did you
stop? If one teaspoon makes it
better and two teaspoons make it
even better and half a teaspoon
makes it better yet, why not put in
another 15 teaspoons and make it
better than ever? Certainly if sug-
ar makes lemonade better, the
only reason to stop is that you
have run out of sugar. The sweet
just an isolated instance of in-the-
head behavior but that all of our
behavior is initiated inside us.

What happens in the outside
world is important only as it re-
lates to what is already in our
head. As we said earlier, based
upon our needs, we develop an
idea or a picture or a perception
of what we want. These pictures
or perceptions may change as our
needs change in importance, but
they are always there. If they are
not there, then we will pay little
or no attention to what goes on in
the outside world. If we have no
set idea about a ringing phone it
can ring forever and we will pay
no attention. Or if we pay atten-
tion it may be to leave the room
because we have an idea in our
head that we like peace and quiet.

We believe that the reason the
man did not answer the phone
was not that he did not have a
care about electric shocks, all I
care about is getting out of here."
They will constantly explore the
cage. They will take the shocks.

They will work a lever that deliv-
ers no food. They will check the
door, the gate, the latch, every
possibility in the cage in an at-
tempt to get out, caring no more
about food than you and I would
care if we were locked in a cage
and it occurred to us that there
might be a chance to get out. As
we said earlier, these mice control
for input. Their endless, exploring
behavior is an attempt to gain the
idea or the perception in the out-
side world that they are free, a
perception that will satisfy the in-
the-head freedom perception that
they desire.

If Pavlov's dog hadn't been
strapped into position so he could
hardly move a muscle, he
wouldn't have spent his time
answer demanded by an objective
test, we feel the pain of this un-
natural demand. The mandatory
answer is often an input we don't
want because in our head is a bet-
ter answer. Our whole being cries
out for us to modify or to explain
even the best answer, but we are
not given this choice. It would
take a genius to construct a test
that could satisfy us all. The "geni-
us" seems to be in constructing
tests that satisfy no one.

Let's take a final example to
make sure that we understand
what has been explained so far.

In Chapter 1 I talked about how
strongly I felt the need to belong.

Here we would say that whenever
I feel this need is unsatisfied, I
concentrate upon controlling for
or gaining the perception, or the
input, that right now I do belong.

Perhaps I want to gain the specific
input that I belong with my wife
because right now that idea is in my head. To gain that specific
input I will contact the world through all of my senses. Through them I will
try to perceive or gain the input that my wife cares for me now. Does she, for
example, talk to me, write to`me, look at me, hug me, kiss me, cook for me, or
work for me? Somehow or other does she provide me with perceptions that
with her I belong? These perceptions, one or more, are an example of the in-
put that my control system may desire right now.
To gain that input, or one or more of those desirable perceptions, my con-
trol system starts to generate some output which may be any combination of
doing, thinking, or feeling that my output system can conjure up. I may, for
example, cry, scream, threaten, hug, kiss, write, phone, send money, become
despondent, threaten suicide, or create an imaginary wife. The more I feel I
don't belong the more I push my behavioral system to try to get my wife to
attend to me. If I can find a behavior that corresponds to what she wants,
then I will get the attention I desire. If I knew that my wife's brain was an in-
put control system I might stop my desperate, almost random behavior and try
to figure out what she wants from me. Not knowing this, too often I try to force her into doing what she doesn't want to do, but it doesn't work. And I never will. She is not a stimulus-response creature; none of us is.

4
The New Brain as an Input
Control System

It is never easy to buy an expen-
sive gift for someone that we care
for very much. Constantly the
thought passes through our mind
will she like it? We ask the sales-
person, consult a good friend of
hers, but still it's a tense moment
when she opens the gift. Will a
look of exhilaration flood her
face, or will there be a more con-
trolled, almost forced expression
of thanks that tells us the gift
missed by half a mile? Here, even
when you know a person well, it's
possible to miss badly. Think how
much harder it is when you know
little or nothing about the other
person. That's why people advise
you, when you don't know a per-
son well, to get a gift in a
to have it. Perhaps the best we
can say here is that some percep-
tions are more important than
others and that we always want
something.

We believe it is easier to under-
stand the relationship between
our basic or general needs and
our internal world if it is pic-
tured:

In this diagram of the new brain
or cerebral cortex we see the ba-
sic needs on the right. There is
also a partial division on the right
that suggests these needs are in
also has a place where we com-
pare what we want, or what we
are controlling for at the time,
with what we perceive in the out-
side or external world. But be-
cause in our internal world we
may have hundreds, perhaps
thousands, of specific needs, we
probably have not one but many
places where we can make this
comparison. There is in theory at
least one place for each of the
countless specific desires, like a
gold chain, that comprise our in-
ternal or personal world.

In practice, however, since we
don't want everything at once-
for example, while she opens the
box containing the gold chain, lit-
tle else may be on her mind-
there are probably far fewer of
these comparing places than
there are desires. Since in a sense
we can open and close these
places (for example, when we
In this diagram, the perceptual
system and the comparing station
which are actually inside the new
brain have been depicted to make
their functions easier to under-
stand. The diagram shows a per-
son who right now is controlling
for a gold chain. She has sent the
gold-chain reference perception
to the active comparing station,
and she has just opened the gift
box. The gift exactly fits what she
had in mind, a situation which is
shown on the diagram as the ar-
row, which is her perception of
the chain, going through her per-
ceptual system to the open gold-
chain comparing station. Because
her control system has provided
her with exactly the input she
wants, this is a controlled percep-
tion. The fact that it is controlled
multiple and often conflicting
needs. We constantly struggle to
build a huge internal world to try
to satisfy these complex forces
that drive us, and if we don't like
the people that run the Ajax Co.

we'll freeze before we use their
product. Look again at the dia-
gram to make sure that you see
this arrow which runs back from
the controlled perception into the
internal world.

To explain further how this
works let us say that right now, as
I write this chapter by hand on a
yellow pad, and see the words
forming in front of my eyes, sen-
tence by sentence, I am control-
ling for this book, and in doing so I
have at least two comparing sta-
tions operating actively. Besides
the overall book station I also
have a Chapter 4 comparing sta-
tion open, and to this station I
have already sent the internal
for different words, all in the at-
tempt to send better words to the
comparing station, words that
would satisfy the reference levels
in the Chapter 4 station. If I finish
this draft of the chapter satisfacto-
rily there will be no error; I will
close down the Chapter 4 compar-
ing station, and for a while there
will be no more work on this
chapter. I will continue to control
for the book; that goes on all the
time until the book is finished. In
that whole book station I will
have an error until it is accepted
by my publisher, but tomorrow I
will open a Chapter 5 comparing
station as part of my whole book
control system. If I get stuck on 5,
as I probably will, I may have to
go back and open up Chapters 1,
2, 3, and 4 comparing stations un-
til I finish the book.

Let us now show the diagram
with an uncontrolled perception
comparing station will activate
my output or my behavioral sys-
tem. It does so by generating a sig-
nal which we will call the error
signal. In my brain this is proba-
bly an electrical or chemical sig-
nal, maybe both, but this signal
does only one thing-it activates
my behavioral system. This is the
system I will use to try to reduce
the error or, even better, elimi-
nate it altogether. In this example
I will keep working and rework-
ing Chapter 4 until I get it right.

(This may be the twentieth time I
have reworked it.) I still detect a
little error, so tomorrow I'll go
over it again, but it does seem it's
getting closer to what I know it
should be in my Chapter 4 com-
paring station. How I actually be-
have is so complex that we will
devote Chapter 6 to explain it, but
here it is important to understand
that for all practical purposes all
SYSTEM
ORDERS OF PERCEPTION
INTERNAL
WORLD
EXTERNAL
BEHAVIORS
WORLD
DOING THINKING FEELING
BEHAVIORAL SYSTEM - OUTPUT
SCHEMATIC CONTROL SYSTEM
CEREBRAL CORTEX
What we now have is almost the
whole system. We see the error
signal that is generated by the
perceptual error which in turn ac-
tivated our behavioral system or
our output. Now we try with all of
the behaviors at our disposal to
do something to some part of the
world-including ourselves, since
we are part of the world-to gain
the perception that we want. As
you can see by the large arrow
that comes out of this system at
the left, our behavior is made up
of all we do, think, and much of
what we feel. We will discuss feel-
ings in detail in Chapter 5. Here it
is sufficient to say that when we
reduce an error it feels good,
when we increase an error it feels
bad.

This leads us to the final diagram,
shown below, which depicts two
states of this control system. Here
we see both the uncontrolled
state, as when I am struggling
with this chapter, and the con-
trolled state, as when I successful-
ly finish it. The information
source and the components of the
behavioral system, shown here
for completeness, will be ex-
plained in Chapter 6.

BEHAVIOR: THE CONTROL OF PERCEPTION PSYCHOLOGY(BCP)
WE ARE INTERNALLY MOTIVATED OUR BEHAVIOR IS PURPOSEFUL AND IT IS FLEXIBLE BECAUSE WE CONTROL FOR INPUT
PERCEPTUAL SYSTEM INPUT
CONTROLLED PERCEPTION
UNCONTROLLED PERCEPTION
INFORMATION
INTERNAL WORLD
EXTERNAL BEHAVIORS
WORLD
DOING THINKING FEELING
ERROR SIGNAS
REORGANIZATION
BEHAVIORAL SYSTEM - OUTPUT
SCHEMATIC CONTROL SYSTEM
CEREBRAL CORTEX
Remember, all except the external
or outside world is actually with-
in the new brain or cerebral cor-
tex. I have pulled out the percep-
tual system, the comparing sta-
tion, and the behavioral system so
that their relationship to each oth-
er can be better seen. This dia-
gram is reproduced inside the
front cover for easy reference
because from here on we will re-
fer to it frequently.

Also following Powers's lead, for
shorthand purposes we will call
this input-control-system function-
ing of our new brain BCP, where B
stands for behavior, C for control,
and P for perceptions. Our Behav-
ior is our constant attempt to Con-
trol our Perceptions, or BCP. From
here on we will call what we dis-
cuss in this book BCP psychology
or just BCP, in contrast to the usu-
al Stimulus-Response or S-R, or
"common sense" psychology,
which we hope BCP will super-
sede.

To make this contrast clear, now
that we know more about BCP
psychology, let us again take a
look at Pavlov's dog in its re-
straints and ask ourselves what
comparing stations the dog had
open. Considering his predica-
ment he must have kept his
comparing station for freedom
wide open for quite a while, but if
he was harnessed too long, even-
tually he would reduce it almost
to inactivity. This is because it
would be too painful to keep an
active station open for a percep-
tion that never seemed to come.

When he finally accepted his pre-
dicament and became "condi-
tioned," only his eating compar-
ing station remained active, be-
cause this was the only station in
which his control system worked.

Pavlov would not allow him to
control successfully for anything
but food. Therefore to condition
people or to get people to do con-
sistently what you desire them to
do, you must either have enough
power over them so you can dic-
tate what stations it makes sense
to keep active. Or as we described
in the last chapter, you must be
able to guess what stations they
ordinarily keep open. To do this
well they must be much subordi-
nate to you not only in power and
intelligence but also in the com-
plexity of their needs. Dogs are
easier to "condition" than people
because they need less and it's
easier to guess what they want.

People, who need more, are much
more stubborn about closing
down stations. But even a dog, as
soon as it is released, will at least
temporarily reactivate its free-
dom station. It may even open up
an antibell station and be hard to
catch around bells and buzzers in
the future. Therefore, the part of
S-R psychology that is called con-
ditioning is just an exercise in
power over weaker, less intelli-
gent, less needful creatures who
have little or no sense of the fu-
ture and who are making the best
of a bad situation. People are not
that way at all. We need a lot, and
it is very important to us which
stations we keep open. Because
we constantly have a sense of the
future, we are in many cases pre-
pared to fight and even die to
keep them open.

At this point I would like to use a
few common situations to explain
further the difference between
BCP and S-R when dealing with
people. For example, Frank is a
manager and wants more produc-
tion out of Bill, one of his
salesmen. Since Frank "instinc-
tively" believes that Bill will re-
spond to a stimulus that he, as
manager, can generate, he calls
him into the office and tells him
that he is dissatisfied with his
work.

Frank threatens that if Bill
doesn't improve next month,
when he is due to get a raise, he is
not going to get it. Frank believes,
as bosses have believed for thou-
sands of years, that Bill will
respond to his threat (stimulus)
by working harder. In practice,
many employees do. That is why
S-R psychology is so widely ac-
cepted. But it is also known that
not every employee will respond
to threats by working harder.

Let's say that Bill begins to work
even more erratically. He starts
reporting late, becomes hard to
get along with, and once in a
while comes to work under the in-
fluence of alcohol. To Frank this is
a puzzling response, and even
though he threatens to fire him,
Bill continues his poor perfor-
mance and ultimately Frank lets
him go. In this not too uncommon
example, the manager didn't un-
derstand the way the salesman's
brain worked. He treated him as
if he would respond to a painful
threat by working harder. In prac-
tice, Bill did change, but from
Frank's standpoint he got worse,
not better. Frank wrongly as-
sumed that Bill had the same
comparing stations open that he
himself had. But this assumption
is often wrong. In this case Bill
wasn't controlling for money, and
the punishment didn't work. Or if
he was controlling for money,
perhaps it was by painting not by
selling the company's product.

The control system is the same,
money, but the comparing sta-
tions are different. Therefore,
while rewards or punishments do
frequently change behavior they
only do so in the direction desired
by the rewarder or punisher if in
this case both the boss and subor-
dinate have the same comparing
stations open, a situation much
less common than most "bosses"
believe.

Now let's look at the same exam-
ple in terms of BCP. First of all, no
one, not your boss, your husband,
your wife, your child, your moth-
er, your father, or your best
friend, can actually know what
goes on inside your head. They
never know your present internal
reference levels or what you are
controlling for. All they can do is
attempt to guess what those levels
may be. Since Bill worked less, not
more, under threat, we can as-
sume that Frank guessed wrong.

Perhaps Bill was controlling for a
desire to leave the job and paint
full time because, like Gauguin, he
saw himself as a frustrated artist.

His comparing station to paint
pictures was wide open, his com-
paring station to sell vacuum
cleaners was almost shut down. It
was open only enough to earn a
little money, but his job perfor-
mance was poor. He didn't per-
ceive much error because when it
came to selling vacuum cleaners,
he was satisfied with his small
effort. The threat to deny him a
raise was happily perceived as an
excuse to shut down the selling
vacuum-cleaners comparing sta-
tion altogether. Why work at all if
there is to be no raise? As long as
he was paid a little for doing al-
most no work he had little error
and no excuse to quit, but when
he was denied the raise, he used
this as an excuse to stop working
almost completely. He could now
open up his painting station wid-
er, because with no raise he saw
even less reason to continue to
make a selling effort. When his
boss threatened him it reduced
his error; he didn't want to sell
anyway, so he slacked off in ran-
dom ways and got fired, which
left him completely free to paint.

It is also possible that he couldn't
explain to his wife, who needed
money to run the house, that he
really wanted to quit and paint,
because her upset would cause a
perceptual error in the I-care-for-
my-wife station. But when he was
"unjustly" denied a raise she
could accept his slacking off (who
would want to put out for a boss
like Frank?) and this also helped.

It gets complicated: even in this
simple example there are quite a
few stations open, and some may
even be in conflict with each oth-
er, but regardless, Bill did per-
ceive the threat as beneficial and
error reducing, a perception far
different from Frank's. S-R psy-
chology would find it difficult to
explain this and much other be-
havior which seems to fail to re-
spond to the proper stimulus.

Therefore, if you want to change
a person's behavior, you must
first try to find out what he is con-
trolling for and which of his com-
paring stations for that need are
now open. Modern operant S-R
psychologists try to do this, but
when they do they are using BCP.

But even if they do find out what
someone is controlling for, that's
only the first part; to get the de-
sired behavior they have some-
how or other to help him to get
the need-fulfilling perception and
also to do what they want. In this
case it may be impossible; I'm
sure that having Bill paint vacu-
um cleaners would not have done
the trick. Getting fired might, of
course, produce other complica-
tions in Bill's life, but the point is
if we want to motivate a person
we have a better chance if, follow-
ing BCP instead of guessing, we sit
down and talk with him to try to
find out what it is he is controlling
for and if it is at all compatible
with the work assignment.

Let's take one more example and
follow it through a step further. A
tenth-grade teacher in a tough,
inner-city school has a pupil, Jim,
who ordinarily sits quietly in his
classroom but does little or no
schoolwork. The teacher, in an at-
tempt to get Jim to work, asks him
to read in front of the class. The
student, a poor reader, stumbles,
falters, and finally slams the book
down on the teacher's desk, calls
the teacher a son-of-a-bitch, and
walks out of the class. Jim is then
suspended from school for gross
insubordination. When the sus-
pension is over, he comes back to
class, but where before he sat qui-
etly, he now becomes a constant
irritant. Eventually the teacher
sends him to the office, where he
is again disciplined with a suspen-
sion. When Jim returns to class,
he starts singing in a loud voice.

The frustrated teacher tells him to
get down to the office. Words en-
sue, and the student physically as-
saults the teacher and is expelled
from school. Using S-R psycholo-
gy, the teacher tried to force the
boy to participate, following the
ancient S-R reasoning of "I can
make you behave," and when that
failed, the student was expelled.

The ironic part is he was expelled
for a behavior that he didn't have
in the first place; he had been qui-
et when the episode started.

Let's look at this from BCP psy-
chology. The teacher is controlling
to teach everyone in his class
something. He has a comparing
station open in which he has the
reasonable reference level "I
want to perceive that everybody
in this class is learning some-
thing." When he perceives Jim
paying absolutely no attention,
this high error perception gener-
ates an error signal which causes
him to choose the not-too-smart
behavior of asking the boy to read
aloud when he probably knows
he can hardly read. The teacher,
still controlling overall for teach-
ing, is now specifically comparing
for reading, and it is from his stu-
dent-must-read comparing station
that he asks the boy to read.

Then when Jim responds with a dis-
turbance, the teacher experiences
a large error, throws him out in
an attempt to correct the error,
and the vicious circle starts. This
is an illustration of the fact that
when a large error signal drives
behavior, it doesn't necessarily or
even usually drive it in a better
direction. This ineffective behav-
ior caused less effective teaching,
and a small Greek tragedy en-
sued. After Jim was expelled, the
teacher could say he was no good,
he didn't want to learn, he had no
right to assault me. As the expul-
sion perception floods into the
teacher's comparing station for
classroom management, a station
that for most teachers is always
open, the usual behavior is to ra-
tionalize, to attempt to avoid
perceiving his part in the unhap-
py result.

Now let's look at it from the stu-
dent's standpoint. Jim has long
since given up the idea that he
can learn in school. He is, in BCP
terms, controlling only a tiny bit if
at all for learning, and all of his
comparing stations related to
learning are shut down. This shut-
down has nothing to do with this
particular teacher. He had given
up before he even went into that
class. What Jim is primarily con-
trolling for is status, and status is
to be cool. In one of his status
comparing stations the reference
perception for school is that as
long as I am treated with respect
by the teachers and the students
of this building, I am satisfied. I
am not interested right now in
learning, but I do want and even
demand respect. As long as the
teacher respects me enough to
leave me alone, I will sit quietly.

Jim has no error relating to aca-
demics as he is not controlling for
learning, and therefore he has no
academic behavior. What the
teacher did was to cause the boy
to have a massive perception of
looking stupid in front of the
class. To deal with a huge status
error, he behaved as he did and
the first suspension resulted. His
behavior was his desperate, al-
though not too successful, attempt
to regain status. At that point the
student is not thinking rationally
or reasonably about rules, teach-
ers, principals, suspensions,
school boards, or paddles.

All he is thinking about is that
I have this tremendous pain, be-
cause suddenly he is not perceiving
himself the way he would like to
perceive himself, as cool. When
he slams the book down, he gets
the whole class's attention; when
he calls the teacher a son-of-a-
bitch, the students silently ap-
plaud, because there are few stu-
dents anywhere who don't keep a
comparing station open for the
perception of teacher discomfort.

That behavior reduces a lot of er-
rors besides his and by it he re-
gains some status.

The problem was that the student
and teacher were controlling dif-
ferent quantities. The teacher was
controlling for his belief "I have
to teach everybody." The student
was controlling for the fact "I will
stay cool as long as they treat me
with some respect, and leaving
me alone is satisfactory." As soon
as Jim was asked to read, the
problem became unsolvable by
the use of S-R psychology.

Could the problem be handled
better using BCP psychology? Let's
say the teacher understands BCP
and perceives the same student
not doing anything in class. He
takes a reasonable guess that Jim
has no currently active compar-
ing station for learning in this
particular class, probably not in
any class. He is not certain what
the student has in his mind, but if
he has been around a while, he
may suspect that this quiet stu-
dent is controlling for status
based upon the general need to
feel worthwhile. Now under-
standing BCP, instead of asking
Jim to stand up and read, some-
thing which the teacher can easily
predict will cause him to stumble
and make a fool of himself, the
teacher asks him, when he enters
the class, if he would stay a mo-
ment after and chat. He does this
in a respectful, interested, friend-
ly way. Since we usually control
for respect, for care, and to be
treated as a person, the teacher
guesses correctly that Jim will re-
spond favorably, and they talk.

During this chat the teacher says,
"I'm upset because you are not
learning as much as I would like
you to. Is there anything I can do
to help?" The teacher says this
quietly and confidentially. Now
they are both controlling for care
and concern. The young man per-
ceives that his usually large care-
concern error is being reduced by
the teacher's interest and the time
the teacher is spending with him.

When we are controlling for the
same quantity, we tend to listen to
each other because what each of
us says comes into an active sta-
tion. Jim, sensing the teacher's
concern and interest, starts to
control a tiny bit for learning and
says he would like to learn but he
can't read the text. The teacher
suggests that maybe he could get
Jim a tutor, perhaps someone who
has a high status in the school so
that the student wouldn't feel that
he was losing face. If the tutoring
works, the student would then
open a comparing station for
reading and begin to do some
school-work. As Jim responds pos-
itively to the tutoring, he opens
up more school comparing sta-
tions and he begins to control
more for learning. He now begins
to have a reference level for
learning which is similar enough
to the teacher's so that learning in
class becomes a possibility. BCP
has given the teacher a chance.

The "I'll stimulate him and he'll
learn the way I want him to," of S-
R was totally destructive. Al-
though we will take this up in
more detail later, we see in this
example a practical application of
BCP to good counseling.

5
Pure Feelings and Feeling
Behaviors

Several years ago I was watching
the final day of the U.S. Open golf
tournament with one of my sons.

To the surprise of everyone a
young unknown had the lead, but
in the last few holes he began to
slip. In a finish filled with drama
he had to make a fifteen-foot putt
or go into a playoff with the favor-
ite. The golf gods were with him;
he calmly stroked it in and then
exploded with joy. At that point I
nudged my son and said, "Take a
good look; what you are seeing is
very likely the happiest moment
he will ever experience."
My guess may have been wrong,
but it was a time of such pure eu-
phoria for the golfer that what I
said seemed possible. In any case,
it was a peak moment, one that all
of us wish for, and most of us ex-
perience a few times in our life.

And that capacity to generate di-
rectly the perception of pure joy,
we believe, is built into our com-
paring stations. We experience it
whenever we or good fortune
suddenly eliminate a large per-
ceptual error. To understand
what we mean, try to imagine
that you are sitting inside a large
active comparing station. Place
your hands far apart but in a posi-
tion so that you can bring them
together easily with a fast, loud
clap. Think of your right hand as
the reference perception, in this
case, the overwhelming desire to
sink the winning putt. Imagine
your left hand as your perception
of the tense situation of the eight-
eenth green. The ball looks to be
about a half a mile from the tiny
hole. Now bring your hands to-
gether as quickly as you can with
a loud clap. This is how I think of
a large error being suddenly elim-
inated or closed in a very active
comparing station. It closes with a
bang and that closure is euphoric.

Suddenly there is no perceptual
error at all, our behavior becomes
a random stumbling, jumping,
hugging, laughing, crying expres-
sion of joy as we experience a
short time with everything we
want, a moment with no error at
all.

Suppose, however, that fortune
had not smiled that day, that the
young golfer three-putted the
eighteenth green and lost the
tournament after leading all af-
ternoon. Now, where there had
been substantial error before he
putted, there would be a huge er-
ror; our arms are not long enough
to
illustrate the miserable
situation in the active comparing
station. Think of it as if our left
hand flew off and landed five
miles down the road; this is analo-
gous to the pain and misery asso-
ciated with this sudden increase
in error.

Even though we have not yet dis-
cussed feelings in any depth, we
did say in Chapter 3 that most of
what we feel consists of feeling
behaviors. Here we would like to
explain this concept in detail and
also explain the other source of
what we feel, how we experience
at the comparing station the pure
joy or misery we have just de-
scribed. These quick intense feel-
ings are built into the comparing
stations because through the per-
ception of sudden pain or pleas-
ure we get an almost instant eval-
uation of the state of our control
system in a way that we cannot
deny. Millions of years ago when
our ancestors were walking down
the trail, satisfied and in good
control, suddenly they may have
come face to face with a sabre-
tooth tiger. At that moment they
needed a quick evaluation of their
present behavior, and most likely
we are descended from those who
got it. The sudden pain that they
experienced gave them that eval-
uation, they didn't have to stop to
think. They knew instantly
through the sudden appearance
of this pain that they should mo-
bilize their behavioral system and
start running. And on the other
side of the coin, if we did not ex-
perience a sudden burst of pure
sensual pleasure when we culmi-
nate the sexual act, would we be
as interested in reproducing as
we obviously have been? Pain
tells us to change what we are do-
ing, pleasure says stand pat. These
strong feelings are always
conscious, always short in dura-
tion, and we always can tell them
apart. We do not mistake pain for
pleasure. And each of us probably
feels these strong comparing-sta-
tion feelings in her or his own
unique way. For example, when I
experience a crushing disappoint-
ment, unexpected upset, or sud-
den danger, I get a sharp, tearing
pain in my chest, something simi-
lar to what I imagine a heart at-
tack may feel like. The pain is so
severe that I sometimes worry for
a moment, am I having a heart at-
tack? Others I know describe it in
their stomach, back, or head;
some say it's just pain all over. We
all have our own way of experi-
encing it. On the other hand,
when I hit the jackpot in some-
thing I have wanted for a long
time, I get an all-over feeling of to-
tal exhilaration. I don't want to do
or say anything, I just want to sit
and savor the moment for as long
as it will last.

In either case, however, neither
the pure pain nor the total eupho-
ria lasts very long. An hour would
be unusual, fifteen minutes more
likely. After the euphoria fades, I
may continue to feel good, but not
great, for weeks or even months if
I recall the triumph. The acute
pure pain of disappointment also
dissipates quickly. After minutes
the chest pain stops, but I still feel
a dull, heavy ache that extends
into my head and acts like a strait
jacket on my movements. This
also slowly fades, and in about
ten or twenty minutes, if I don't
get going and do something active
to reduce the error, it usually
blends into what was briefly men-
tioned in Chapter 3 as a feeling be-
havior that may last for days. In
my case what I usually choose is
depression, or, as we will explain
next, I choose to depress. In peo-
ple that I know or have worked
with the depressing may last for
years. Lasting for life is not un-
heard of.

Painful feeling behaviors like de-
pressing, which until BCP I called
depression, do not come from' a
comparing station. They arise
from my behavioral system, that
is, they are the feeling part of how
I perceive the behaviors I choose
when I attempt to reduce an er-
ror. Because it is generated by my
perception of a behavior or be-
haviors, depression has a doing
component of lethargy and inac-
tivity, usually coupled with ten-
sion, a thinking component in
which I may think I'm worthless
and hopeless, and a. feeling com-
ponent which is the depression.

Ordinarily, we tend to call any be-
havior by the part that we per-
ceive as dominant, for example,
we call what we do when we
move quickly running, or when
we try to solve a problem we say
we are thinking. So it makes sense
that when we try to reduce an er-
ror through a behavior where the
perception of depression predom-
inates we call this a feeling behav-
ior or depressing. This is, for most
readers, a new concept and one
which is further explained in the
next chapter when we take a look
at our whole behavioral system.

Here it is only necessary that the
reader understand that it is possi-
ble for what we ordinarily think
of as a feeling to be generated by
a behavior or our perception of
an output of our control system.

In the sabre-tooth tiger example,
when I suddenly see the tiger I ex-
perience the pure pain of the er-
ror, but as I run I experience the
fear. Here, however, we would
say that as I run I am mostly
aware of fearing. The running is,
in terms of how I feel, the lesser
component of my behavior.

Thus we have two major sources
of our feelings. The first is the in-
tense, but short-lived, pure feeling
generated by a substantial in-
crease or decrease of an error in
an active comparing station
which quickly tells us the state of
our control system. The second is
the less acute, but longer lasting
perception of a behavior or out-
put which, miserable as it may be,
is our current attempt to reduce
the error. Most of the time when
we complain of feeling badly we
are not talking about the short-
term, pure, comparing-station
feelings, we are talking about
long-term, miserable behaviors.

This is because when we are up-
set (or euphoric) our pure feelings
are so obvious and so painful that
to talk about them is superfluous,
and few people of any sensitivity
would ask. Personally I cringe
when a crass TV reporter asks a
family whose house has just been
washed away how they feel. No
one had to ask the young man
who won the golf tournament
how he felt, and when several re-
porters did, he was not too articu-
late. Without error in the only
control system operating right
then, he had no need to talk, and
his few remarks were obviously
inadequate to describe how good
he felt.

Unlike pure feelings, feeling be-
haviors are not always obvious.

At times we even tend to try to
hide them both from ourselves
and others, saying we feel fine or
composed when we are terribly
upset or angry. We do this be-
cause we believe that if we ex-
press how we feel right now we
may increase our error. For
example, if I tell the whole world
how much I am angering right
now because my car won't start, I
may lose friends I know I need.

Feeling behaviors, which are ini-
tiated by substantial errors and
large error signals, are always
miserable, unhappy behaviors
like depressing, anxietying, guilt-
ing, headaching, fearing, anger-
ing, hating, or lying. When we are
pushed by a large error usually
caused by a conflict, which we
will discuss in detail in Chapter 9,
and we have no good behavior to
reduce it, the urgency to rid our-
selves of it makes us rigid. We eas-
ily get locked into a painful be-
havior as if this were all we could
do. Try to stop depressing the
next time you choose this painful
behavior and you will see what I
mean. It's like trying to change
horses in midstream. To change
we usually need a temporary
respite from the error that is driv-
ing us. In part this is what good
counseling should provide. A
warm, interested counselor, just
being there and helping us to fo-
cus on alternate behaviors, causes
enough error reduction so that
with less error we gain the flexi-
bility to figure out a better behav-
ior than depressing. Keep in mind
that good counseling is changing
verbs not nouns.

When we are upset we also tend
to forget that most of us have a
vast array of long-term behaviors
which feel very good and which
we call upon every day of our life.

Probably in the case of the young
man who won the golf tourna-
ment, golfing will always be a
happy behavior even if he never
again wins a major event. There
are many more happy behaviors
than miserable ones-behaviors
like golfing, playing tennis,
socializing, eating, loving, work-
ing, painting, reading, and writ-
ing, to mention a very few. Unlike
painful behaviors we choose
these not when we suffer a large
perceptual error but when we
want to do something that we
know feels good. They are part of
our inner world, and we are usu-
ally able to control for them suc-
cessfully. They may help us to re-
duce an error- for example, we
can substitute socializing for de-
pressing, but this is not easy to do;
mostly the error that starts these
behaviors is small and easy to
control. With the exception of eu-
phoric sexual intercourse, where
we always reduce a large error,
only a tiny part of the joy of these
behaviors is error reduction; the
pleasure is in satisfying what we
have built into our inner world
that we enjoy. For example, I en-
joy working on this book, even
though it is also very frustrating,
because I like to write. I like the
activity and I guess it is gradually
closing a large error, but I don't
feel that closure very much. The
good feeling, I believe, is much
more in the writing behavior it-
self. Maybe it is a pleasurable be-
havior because it once closed a
substantial error, but now I do it
because I like the activity itself.

Naturally I would like to experi-
ence pure euphoria every once in
a while, but as a steady diet I can't
expect it. But I can do lots that I
enjoy, and when writing becomes
a drag, as it may when I keep at it
too long or I get completely stuck,
I can take time off and play ten-
nis. It's hard to reduce my total er-
ror if I sit at my desk and stew; it's
easy if I go out and hit the tennis
ball with a friend. Unfortunately,
if we do not have access to some
enjoyable behaviors, then when
we experience a large error we
will more likely choose a misera-
ble behavior and stick grimly to it.

How often have you stayed too
long at a frustrating task, know-
ing full well you would be better
off doing something else? But you
have to have the something else.

Therefore, it is important to learn
that much of what we feel when
we are upset is the major compo-
nent of an unsatisfactory behav-
ior through which we are trying
to reduce an error. And these feel-
ing behaviors do to some extent
reduce the error or we would not
choose them, a process that we
will explain in the next chapter. If
we can learn this we may be able
to force ourselves to look for a
better behavior. There is no sense
in sitting around depressing, for
example, if we can do something
better.

If, however we believe we are the
S-R victims of an unfortunate out-
side event over which we have no
control, we tend not to make the
effort. We may not, for example,
be able to stop someone we love
from rejecting us, but we can, if
we understand BCP, make the ef-
fort to remove that person from
our personal world and look for
someone else. To keep him in our
world and control for him and
then choose to depress because he
doesn't love us hardly makes good
sense. Unfortunately the effort
that many of us do make is not to
look for someone else but to try to
blot out the depressing with a
drug. Alcoholics blot out their
misery, and "feeling no pain" they
allow their lives to disintegrate. In
a sense they have jumped from
the frying pan into the fire. We'll
discuss in depth in Chapter 12 the
part drugs play in how we feel
and what we do.

There is also a final, somewhat
uncommon situation which is
worth looking at for a moment.

Suppose we set a reference level
for staying where we are on the
job for the next six months, and
suddenly, before that time, the
boss calls us in and gives us an
unexpected promotion and raise.

What happened happens to all of
us once in a while; our perception
of the world suddenly exceeds the
reference level in an open com-
paring station. When we over-
shoot our expectation, that is eu-
phoria time. In a sense we have
created a positive or reverse er-
ror, and if we could do this all the
time life might be unbelievably
joyful. But of course what we do,
although many of us try not to, is
raise our reference level at least
to where we now are and usually
higher. It's hard to keep your ex-
pectations below reality for more
than a short time, but it's a good
strategy not to expect too much. It
makes getting there that much
better and prevents a lot of disap-
pointment. On the other hand, if
we set our sights too low we may
never get there at all, so we are al-
ways juggling for the best refer-
ence levels to send to our active
comparing station. It's an interest-
ing game that most of us continu-
ally play with ourselves, and if we
have a behavioral system filled
with adequate behaviors it's a
game we can mostly win.

We now move on to examine our
behavioral system, to find out
why it is that we choose to do
what we do. And especially to find
out why, when we suffer large er-
rors, so many of us choose painful
feeling behaviors.

6
Behavior: Reorganization, Redirection,
and New Information

A discussion with a colleague who
is an expert on suicide confirmed
the unhappy fact that too often
high-school students, usually
boys, kill themselves. In a typical
case, the parents of a seventeen-
year-old boy thought, in retro-
spect, he spent more time by him-
self than seemed normal. In
school, where his work was satis-
factory, what was noticeable was
that he was not noticed; he
tended to blend into the back-
ground. He did have a few close
friends, and he did not complain
that anything major was wrong.

Obviously, he must have been suf-
fering from a huge and growing
perceptual error; the life he
wanted was not at all working
out. Even though he appeared
outwardly calm, we believe that
disturbing ideas that had never
been there before were racing
through his mind. More and more
the idea that life was overwhelm-
ingly painful crowded out other
thoughts. To relieve the pain, he
threw a rope over a garage rafter,
fixed it around his neck, and
stepped off the chair. He had, as
we will explain, reorganized his
life away.

Unlike this desperate young man,
most of the time we know what to
do. Our behavior is usually
smooth and well organized be-
cause we are not suffering a large
perceptual error. As we live from
day to day, we are able to fulfill
our needs with behavior that is
fairly routine. Mostly we use be-
havior that we have used before,
behavior learned a long time ago.

With day-to-day adjustments it
works pretty well. Nevertheless,
there are times for all of us when
we don't know what to do. For ex-
ample, what do you do when you
find yourself snowbound on a
lonely country road, certain that
no one knows that you went in
this direction? What do you do
when your wife or husband with-
out warning announces he or she
is moving out and filing for di-
vorce? You have spent the last
four years immersed in study to
get into medical school, and every
application has come back re-
jected. Your job is a nightmare,
your boss never stops riding you,
but you need money too badly to
quit. Your teenage son quits
school and refuses to leave his
room, where all he does is listen
to records and smoke pot. You
have been trying for ten years to
discover why a certain virus
causes cancer, and you seem no
closer to the solution than when
you started. The list is endless. We
all experience situations like
these where we don't have the va-
guest idea of what to do. Yet we
feel a tremendous urge to do
something. We find it almost im-
possible just to sit quietly, to bear
the pain without complaining and
do nothing.

What we commonly do when we
don't know what to do is to
choose the pain or discomfort of a
feeling behavior; for example, we
depress. From the standpoint of
BCP, our control system is work-
ing poorly, but it is still working.

Bad as it may be, a feeling behav-
ior is still better than many other
behaviors. If the young man who
hanged himself could have de-
pressed enough to get the atten-
tion of someone who could have
helped him, he might not have
ended his life. Most feeling behav-
iors work to reduce the error
enough so that destructive behav-
iors like suicide do not occur. Of-
ten, however, to get rid of the
pain of a miserable feeling behav-
ior we stop controlling for what
we want. This is because, as long
as we control for something we
cannot get, we will almost always
do something painful or even self-
destructive in a vain hope that it
will reduce our error. But wheth-
er we are controlling for some-
thing possible or impossible, we
must behave, that is, do, think, and
feel as long as we experience an er-
ror.

For example, if we are rejected
this year for medical school, we
can try again, go to a foreign
school, get a doctorate in a related
field, sit around depressing and
do little, or give up the idea all
together and do something else. If
we close down all our medical-
school comparing stations, we
eliminate our error, but this is not
easy to do. If we can't find anoth-
er way to gain worth, it may be
impossible because we must keep
at least one comparing station
open for each of our general needs.

Therefore, most of us struggle for
quite a while to get what we want
when a viable alternative is not
apparent. We may succeed or fail,
but it is this struggle to find the be-
havior or the output that works
that we will discuss in this chapter.

Animals need less than we do,
and have many built-in behaviors
that satisfy their needs. Our needs
are complex, and we have almost
no built-in behaviors to satisfy
them. In fact, except for a few ear-
ly behaviors like blinking, cough-
ing, or kicking, everything we do
is learned. To learn to behave,
that is, to act, think, and feel, Pow-
ers and I believe that we have a
three-component behavioral sys-
tem to provide us with the behav-
iors we use to satisfy our needs.

The total system-which contains
the major subsystems-reorgani
zation and redirection, and the
minor subsystem new information
-is shown on the diagram on
page 72. This is a portion of the to-
tal control system which for easy
reference is on the inside cover.

Of these three systems we will
devote the most time to explain-
ing reorganization, because this
system is both the most interest-
ing and the most complex. It is
also the system that completely
separates us from machines. Com-
puters can redirect and use new
information, but only living crea-
tures can reorganize. Early in life
it is essentially the only system we
have, but by the time we are two
or three years old we will rarely,
except in unusual circumstances,
reorganize in any substantial way.

As we grow very old, we may
again begin to use reorganization,
especially if we become senile,
but most of our life we will gener-
ally use the redirection and new-
information components of the
total system. Nevertheless, when-
ever we suffer a substantial error
we may through reorganization
add tiny bits of behavior that are
valuable and reduce our error.

But we are generally unaware
that this important system is ac-
tive.

To explain how reorganization,
our fundamental system, works
try to imagine yourself a newborn
child. At birth you have a few sim-
ple behaviors mostly associated
with eating and sleeping. You are
born knowing at least how to
swallow, breathe, eliminate, kick,
grasp, grimace, sleep, suck, cough,
sneeze, and randomly vocalize in
a minimal way. You may have a
few additional innate behaviors,
but for the purpose of under-
standing reorganization these are
enough. You are also born with all
the parts of your control systems
described in Chapter 4 intact, ex-
cept for the subject of this chap-
ter, the behavioral system. This
means that you have when you
are born all of the general needs
that you are ever going to have.

Some needs like worthwhileness
and competitiveness will take
time to become known to you, but
from the old-brain demands for
food and water to freedom and
the other new-brain needs, they
are all there. And from them you
have already built a very simple
personal or internal world where
staying alive is foremost. Intact at
birth, although it will develop
much more as we grow, is our
perceptual apparatus, and also
our ability to compare for what
we want through comparing sta-
tions. Already we can experience
a perceptual error and we are ca-
pable of generating an error sig-
nal.

As we have explained, the pur-
pose of the error signal is to drive
our behavior to reduce the error,
but at birth it can only drive the
limited behavior that is available.

Since we have not learned any-
thing yet beyond what works in
our mother's uterus, we haven't
the slightest idea which behavior
will reduce any error we feel.

Therefore, the error signal ran-
domly drives all the behaviors we
have available in an attempt to
find one or more that will reduce
any error we feel. When this OC-
curs, that error has activated our
earliest and later our most impor-
tant behavior system, reorganiza-
tion. For several months before
birth (assuming a healthy mother
and child), we lived an organized,
comfortable existence in our
mother's womb. That we could
move around is obvious, and re-
cent prenatal research reveals
that before birth the infant proba-
bly has the ability to cough, elimi-
nate wastes, and maybe even suck
his thumb. Chances are that in-
side our mother we are probably
as comfortable, as physically well
cared for, and, in BCP terms, as
organized as we are ever going to
be. At birth, thrust out into the
cold, cruel world, we must experi-
ence a huge error in one of our
first comparing stations, comfort.

It is this discomfort error which
initially activates our
reorganization system, and when
this system is active it reorganizes
behavior without stopping until
the error is reduced, which means
our behavior is again organized,
or we are exhausted or dead.

To begin with, the first important
characteristic of the reorganiza-
tion system is that it is not a smart
system. It causes us to behave in
random ways, but it does not
know and never will know what
to do specifically to reduce the er-
ror. As we grow and develop a
redirection system, that sensible
system by rejecting foolish behav-
iors will limit what we will accept
from our reorganization system,
but the reorganization system it-
self never has any inkling wheth-
er one behavior is better than an-
other. It is a random system. If,
however, our basic behavior sys-
tem, the one we use when we
don't know what to do, were not a
random system we would suffer a
biologic disadvantage. If there
were any bias in the system, that
is, if it were "smart" in any way,
then possible survival pathways
would be closed to us. Whenever
we get into a very difficult surviv-
al situation we must keep all our
options open, and only a random
system does this. For example, if
we did not know how to swim we
would be afraid of the water and
might starve if we were cut off by
a flood. The bias would kill us. Un-
der these severe circumstances
our reorganization system would
force some of us into the water,
where some of us would random-
ly learn to swim (more reorgani-
zation) and some of us would sur-
vive. Without such a "dumb" ran-
dom system we would never
learn anything new. Reorganiza-
tion is a property of all living
creatures; inability to reorganize
in time is one of the reasons that
so many species have become ex-
tinct.

This leads us to the second char-
acteristic of this system, which is
that all it knows is to do, that is, as
we will see, to keep offering be-
havior after behavior to our
redirection system until our per-
ceptual error is reduced. To do
this it will fragment and recom-
bine the behaviors we have to
produce new variations, or if this
does not work it will also initiate
totally new behaviors in an at-
tempt to reduce our perceptual
error. If none of these behaviors
works singly or in combination it
will keep driving and come up
with new possibilities until one
works well enough to reduce the
error which will turn the system
off. It is therefore a random, illog-
ical, nonlearning, but highly ener-
getic system that produces
behavior after behavior, new or
some combination of old and new,
until the error is sufficiently re-
duced so that reorganization is no
longer needed or we stop control-
ling for what is causing the error.

It is strictly activated by an error
signal; it senses nothing else.

At birth, when we experience an
error, the reorganization system
goes into action. We can no more
turn it off than we can stop the
earth from turning, because when
we are born it is the only system
that we have. Without it we
would learn much more slowly,
we would never learn anything
unique, and, unless we were
taught by others much of what we
learn through this system, most of
us would remain babies forever.

Since it is a random creative sys-
tem, as we reorganize we find
that a wide variety of behavior
satisfies our needs. This is what
causes people to be so different
that even identical twins usually
turn out to be vastly different as
they mature. Reorganization pro-
vides the variation in behaviors
that allows some of us to adapt
and even prosper under highly
adverse circumstances. Animals
who have small brains have less
reorganizing capacity. They tend
to be much more alike and, there-
fore, less adaptable to changes in
their environments.

Even the old brain, as we will dis-
cover in Chapter 11, is capable of
this process. Since we have the
largest and most advanced brain,
we are, by far, the creature most
benefited, but also, since only hu-
man beings commit suicide, the
most capable of being harmed by
this system. It is likely that it was
this system, through fortuitous re-
organizations like learning to
walk upright and learning to
speak, that made it possible for
our brain to grow as much as it
has.

As soon as we are born and our
error-free, organized prenatal life
is abruptly shattered, we very
quickly start to reorganize in the
attempt to reduce the sudden er-
ror we now experience. We begin
by running through, at random,
fragments and combinations of
the limited behaviors that we
have available. We have no idea
which one will work, but almost
instantaneously we put together
the fragments that lead to crying,
and they work. When we cry,
someone makes us comfortable, a
situation that we perceive favora-
bly because our discomfort error
disappears. As soon as this hap-
pens the reorganization system
turns off, and usually we go to
sleep, a behavior learned prena-
tally.

What happened was that a nurse,
or someone else who controlled
for comforting crying infants, re-
sponded to our crying and made
us comfortable. At this point we
know nothing about mothers,
nurses, or even people. All we
know is that when we quickly
found the combination of frag-
mentary innate vocal behaviors
that led to crying, we got the com-
fort that we wanted. Kicking,
swallowing, grimacing, urinating,
coughing, grasping didn't, but cry-
ing did. Through reorganization
we have learned something from
essentially nothing. We had no
idea which behavior would work,
but we had an open comfort com-
paring station, and as the percep-
tions caused by each behavior
came in, crying got us the comfort
we desired. We have now learned
a complaining vocal behavior that
many of us will use for the rest of
our life whenever we are uncom-
fortable.

In the beginning, reorganization
is the only system we have. From
it, however, the other systems
soon develop, and while at any
time for the rest of our life when
we suffer large errors we may
still use reorganization, as we
said, most of our behavior is gen-
erated by two other systems,
redirection and new information.

Simply stated, reorganization
means to attempt to go from one
organized low-error state to an-
other but because learning is not
a part of the reorganization sys-
tem it is often misdirected. Be-
cause it uses a lot of energy and
its results are always chancy, very
quickly after birth we develop the
ability to behave much more pre-
cisely through the use of our se-
cond major system redirection.

Reorganizing, however, develops
the ability to redirect, and the bet-
ter the ability to redirect becomes,
the less often we have to reorgan-
ize.

Unlike reorganization,
redirection is a smart learning
system. For example, when crying
got our error reduced, crying very
quickly became a learned behav-
ior or in this case also a logical
strategy, because we had no rea-
son to believe that it would not
work again. So the next time we
experienced an error, perhaps
hunger, we cried and presto, we
were fed. Later we soiled our dia-
per, it was uncomfortable, we
cried again and got a fresh diaper.

To the newborn it seems as if a
miraculous behavior has been
discovered. Anytime we feel dis-
comfort we cry and we are soon
comfortable. Now, when we are
uncomfortable, we need no ran-
dom reorganization. We know
exactly what to do-change direc-
tion. When we wake up hungry
we go from sleeping directly to
crying and our problem is quickly
solved. Thus our redirection sys-
tem, unlike our reorganization
system, soon becomes a store-
house of learned behaviors and
logical strategies that will reduce
error. We may try one and then
another, but we start much closer
to the solution when we try be-
havior that has either worked in
the past or is very close to one
that has worked. Only when
redirection doesn't work will we
return to the reorganization sys-
tem which in its random and,
compared to redirection,
stumbling way is still the only sys-
tem capable of producing new be-
haviors to reduce our error.

Early in life, in an attempt to per-
ceive love, we may right now
want to be held, kissed, hugged,
tossed about, stroked, and ca-
ressed. In a loving family we have
experienced a lot of this enjoyable
attention, but we haven't yet fig-
ured out exactly how to turn it on.

When we want loving we turn to
our "magic" redirection system,
but all that it has stored within it
so far is crying. When we cry we
are made comfortable, perhaps
fed, but not always loved. Loving
is what we want now, and we
sense that our magic system isn't
working. But we don't quit easily,
and we keep crying. A continu-
ously crying baby, however, is
hardly lovable, so in many cases
we are ignored, which increases
our error. We scream, but still we
don't get the loving we desire. Our
love error is now substantial and
crying has done nothing to reduce
it.

Soon our large, unresolved error
activates our reorganization
system, and it again runs through
the whole gamut of available be-
haviors, but none of these works.

Undaunted, however, because
this random senseless system can-
not be daunted, it offers the
redirection system to try a whole
group of new behaviors, and, in
the case of most babies, some-
where around three months old it
offers the new behavior of
chortling and smiling. As soon as
we chortle and smile, immediate-
ly we get a lot of loving attention.

Certainly it took us a while and
goodness knows how many be-
haviors, but again we have suc-
cessfully reorganized. Error is re-
duced as we bask in the loving at-
tention, and we lead an organized
life for a while, enjoying being
loved when we chortle as well as
being made comfortable when we
cry. Now we quickly add smiling
and chortling to our redirection
system, and when we want loving
we redirect, using these behav-
iors. This is how the redirection
system, which is our sensible
learning system, grows. More and
more successful behaviors, in-
cluding some new ones initiated
by reorganization and many more
learned from others around us as
we look about and see what
works, are added until by adult-
hood we have thousands of suc-
cessful behaviors stored in this
system and instantly ready to use.

Before it adds a behavior offered
by our reorganization system or
from any other source, like ob-
serving or being taught, the
redirection system is capable of
mentally running the new behav-
ior through the open comparing
station or stations to see if it
might work. If, on the trial run,
the behavior seems as if it would
increase the error, it is rejected.

It also might decrease the error in
one station but increase it in an-
other, as when we think how
much fun it would be to go swim-
ming but also we learn how terri-
bly cold the water is. We might re-
ject swimming, but then we fur-
ther redirect by thinking of a rub-
ber wetsuit. When we put one on
we are able to go swimming com-
fortably in cold water. Our
redirection system is learning all
the time; in fact, almost all learn-
ing that takes any effort is
redirection. What it can't do is
come up with a totally new be-
havior. It cannot for example in-
vent a wetsuit if none exists. For
that kind of novel behavior, in all
our life from infancy on, we must
turn to our reorganization system.

But it doesn't invent a wetsuit
either. It has no logical or
sensible ability, but it can keep
giving us the idea that maybe
somehow we could keep warm in
cold water. As it bombards the
redirection system with this con-
cept, the redirection system may
eventually try something like a
shirt, and under the continual
bombardment of the random idea
warm in the water is possible, it
may come up with a wetsuit. The
reorganization system doesn't do
anything. It just provides a sensi-
ble concept that is seized upon
and used successfully by the
redirection system. Eventually, if
we can last long enough, it will al-
most always work. But it can also
drive us to suicide as in the exam-
ple that began the chapter.

In contrast to inefficient reorgan-
ization which requires a lot of en-
ergy, our redirection system de-
velops gradually into an efficient,
ingenious system which we al-
most always use. It knows all we
know and will always try to come
up with a behavior or strategy to
reduce error. Even when the reor-
ganization system throws out the
random thought that life is too
painful, leading the redirection
system to consider suicide, this
system, because it is intelligent,
moral, judgmental, and able to
take into account past, present,
and future, will usually reject sui-
cide as not desirable or a bad er-
ror-reducing behavior. Unlike the
reorganization system, which has
no memory and cares nothing
about the future-present error is
its only motivator- the
redirection system has access to
all of our memory, and constantly
tries to predict the future course
of its behaviors. It will run suicide
through the system mentally, and
as it does so it detects a huge po-
tential error in a whole series of
comparing stations that have to
do with life, especially with our
future. Therefore, suicide is re-
jected and not stored in our
redirection system as desirable
behavior. Only when we are ex-
hausted by chronic error may we
close down our life comparing
stations and then accept suicide
into our redirection system as a
"sensible" possibility. This is why
we must never let tired, despond-
ent people be alone for too long.

They may suffer so much pain
that they reorganize (and then re-
direct) by killing themselves.

While at times it may be danger-
ous to reorganize, it is also impor-
tant to understand that without
the continuing bits and pieces of
reorganization
that
our
redirection system continually ac-
cepts, our life would slow to a
walk at the point reorganization
quit. We would have whatever
redirection were present, but we
could not cope with any error
beyond its capacity. This is often
tragically illustrated after a stroke
or other serious brain damage,
when both systems are damaged
and the victim temporarily can
learn nothing new. But the reor-
ganization system is a basic sur-
vival system, and in whatever
brain we have left it will again be-
gin to function and may eventual-
ly cope with some or all of the
damage by coming up with new
functions in the remaining brain
to replace the damage. It is
through reorganization that a
stroke victim may learn to speak
again, but therapy is needed to
keep the victim controlling for
speaking. Otherwise the aphasic
may give up, and without error
there will be no reorganization.

But there is no guarantee reor-
ganization will work. It can also
produce ideas that are worthless
or crazy, and this too is apparent
in brain-damaged or senile peo-
ple.

Reorganization is like a slot ma-
chine being fed coin after coin by
a person desperate to win. It may
hit a jackpot that the desperate
redirection system can use, but it
also may never pay off. We may
exhaust ourselves and put all our
mental money into the machine,
with no results. But even worse it
is a slot machine without bias.

Gambling machines are biased in
our favor, that is, they take the
money we put in, but that's all-
they never take any out of our
pocket. The reorganization system
is like an unbiased slot machine,
that is, one with a negative as well
as positive jackpot. It is capable of
coming up with a totally destruc-
tive idea like suicide or murder,
much like a slot machine that can
reach into your pocket or spit out
a promissory note that you must
pay off.

To summarize, the reorganiza-
tion system may become active
anytime we have a large error,
but all it can do is suggest at ran-
dom that we do something to re-
duce the error. Usually the sensi-
ble redirection system evaluates
these suggested behaviors and
tends to reject the negatives and
accept the positives. In this way a
delicate symbiosis is maintained
between sensible redirection and
random, erratic, but potentially
creative reorganization. Only
when our redirection system is
desperate, when, for example, we
suffer a huge error, will it enter-
tain destructive or bizarre sugges-
tions and even try them out be-
cause nothing better is available.

Finally, we have another system,
a new-information system that we
use to deal with small errors.

While this is best classfied as a
very simple subsystem under
redirection, it is worth looking at
for a moment, because in prac-
tice, if we don't want too much or
suffer misfortune, this is the sys-
tem that we mostly use. When our
lives are well organized we still
have many things to do, and we
do most of them by the simple ap-
plication of new information. For
example, we knock on a friend's
door and wait. The friend calls
out, "Come in, the door is open,"
and we go in. We acted upon the
new information that the door
was open and entered. This is all
new information is. There was in
this case almost no redirection
and certainly no reorganization.

This is why on the control-system
diagram we show the new infor-
mation perception as going right
into the behavioral system, where
it helps us to know what to do.

Much of what we do all day long
is to eliminate transient errors
with new information. Sometimes
the new information is complex,
like following a maintenance
manual to tune a car. Still, unless
you lose a part, break something,
or run into a situation not in the
manual, you can use its new in-
formation alone. If any of these
complications occur you may
have to redirect, but it is unlikely
that you will ever reorganize. Per-
haps if you just can't get the car
tuned, you will, as Rudolph Diesel
did, invent a new engine that
doesn't need tuning. But even that
was probably an extreme form of
redirection; it was still an inter-
nal-combustion engine. Maybe if
you invent a chlorophyll engine
or an atomic engine, that would
be reorganization. But it is much
more likely if you couldn't get
your car in tune you would drive
it into the lake. That would also be
reorganization, although not what
anyone except the salvage people
would call successful. Remember
our redirection system is con-
stantly on the lookout for new in-
formation. It deals with reality,
and it struggles to learn as much
as it can to keep abreast of all pos-
sible behaviors. Our formal edu-
cation is a combination of new in-
formation and redirection, but
whether we are aware of it or not,
we are always learning through
the bits and flashes that our reor-
ganization system constantly sug-
gests to our redirection system
when we are struggling with an
error.

From these three sources of be-
havior come all that we do, think,
and much of what we feel. First
we try to do or to think, as doing
and thinking are ordinarily our
two most effective error-reducing
behaviors. But, as we said, when
we don't know what to do or
think we usually redirect, or on
rare occasions reorganize, by us-
ing the feeling behaviors de-
scribed in Chapter 5. What we
promised then, and can explain
now, is the purpose of feeling be-
havior. Let's say that you have
your heart set on going to a con-
cert tonight, but you fail to get
tickets in advance. You stand in a
long line, and just when you get to
the counter the ticket seller closes,
sold out. Suddenly you have a
huge error. You feel the quick
pain as the error takes over your
comparing station, but there is
nothing you can do-there are no
tickets. Driven by the sudden
large-error signal, your reorgani-
zation system becomes active and
may suggest violence like break-
ing the box-office window or
screaming in anguish or walking
in without a ticket. Your
redirection system entertains
these ridiculous suggestions only
for a moment before it takes over.

It may cause you to depress, be-
cause depressing, miserable as it
is, can reduce your error.

As we discussed in Chapter 5,
there are two kinds of feelings.

One is exemplified by the rather
pure feeling of pain, associated
with the sudden error caused in
this case by the closing of the tick-
et window. That pain is about the
same for any of us and lasts only
a short time because we may im-
mediately start to reduce this
painful error by redirecting with
a miserable behavior like depress-
ing. Depressing, like most of our
high-error feeling behaviors, was
initially a product of reorganiza-
tion. Perhaps early in our life,
when we were frustrated and
when crying, screaming, and
throwing tantrums (all earlier
angry reorganizations) did not
work, depressing was suggested
to our redirection system. Our
hard-pressed redirection system
gave it a try and it worked reason-
ably well for the following four
reasons. First, when we depress
we feel sorry for ourself and
therefore can ask for help more
easily. Other people are sensitive
to our depressing and tend to of-
fer help. Second, we can partially
justify the failure to get tickets in
advance by showing how upset
we are, and depressing is an easi-
ly communicated upset. We can
rationalize all kinds of failure be-
cause we are depressed. Third, it
replaces and protects us from the
more violent redirection of anger-
ing, which might cause us to start
a fight or make a scene. We are
sensible enough to realize this
would cause us more error.

Fourth, if we seem very upset,
others will allow us to do or say
things that ordinarily they
wouldn't put up with. Therefore,
a powerful error-reducing aspect
of depressing and other feeling
behaviors is that when we use
them we can control others. How
many of us tiptoe in fear around a
depressing relative in an attempt
not to invoke further upset? To-
gether all four of these functions
of depressing help us to deal with
the error better than any behav-
ior we can think of right away.

The price we pay for this "better"
behavior, however, is to suffer the
depression. And it is a price most
of us are willing to pay. In almost
all instances it is a lot better than
angering-if we angered too
much we could get into serious
trouble with other people whom
we need to fulfill our needs. In
this simple example our depress-
ing probably won't last long. We
will get over it quickly when we
find something else we enjoy. Of-
ten, however, when we suffer
more substantial error, like losing
a good job, this kind of feeling be-
havior can last a long time, be-
cause until we find another job it
may be the best redirection we
have. Remember, for the four im-
portant reasons cited, depressing
and many other feeling-behavior
redirections reduce the error
enough so we will use them again
and again until we find a better
behavior. Bad as they are, they
give us a sense that we are still in
control, and all of them help us
avoid reorganization, which may
be worse. But we don't choose
them to prevent reorganization-
we are never that rational-we
choose them because we recog-
nize that without these behaviors
we will be out of control. And no
control system "likes" to lose
control, because when it does it
must cope with huge, painful er-
rors. We will explain more why
we choose and use these feeling
behaviors in Chapter 10, which is
devoted entirely to this subject,
but it was necessary here to begin
the explanation.

Finally, let's look at several other
examples of the all-important re-
organization system in order to
understand it clearly. Remember
it is a random system activated by
an error signal. It works by sug-
gesting behaviors to our
redirection system, which accepts
or rejects what it offers. It is the
redirection system that takes the
randomness out of what the reor-
ganization system suggests, so or-
dinarily we won't sing or dance
when we are in the desert starv-
ing, but if we have enough error
so that the redirection system is
helpless, we may. In the desert
our reorganization system also
may suggest we try a wide variety
of things to eat that we never
thought of trying, and a desper-
ate, out-of-control redirection sys-
tem with nothing better to offer
may accept one of these "foods"
even though it might be danger-
ous. Unlike redirection, which has
judgment, morality, logic, learn-
ing, much information, and the
sense of the past and future, the
reorganization system acts only in
the immediate present, right now.

And since its only motivation is to
reduce error it does not care
whether the behavior is good,
bad, appropriate, moral, immoral,
dangerous, illegal, disloyal, stu-
pid, or anything else. If it can pos-
sibly reduce error, a desperate
redirection system may try what
it offers. If it works, the error-re-
ducing behavior will immediately
be put into the redirection system
as learned behavior, where it can
be used again. If eating grasshop-
pers kept us alive, the next time
we are lost we'll eat them quickly
as redirection; we won't have to
reorganize. Remember, the reor-
ganization system can't be turned
off except by error reduction or
closing down the comparing sta-
tion in which there is the error. It
never sleeps. As we will explain
later, we experience it nightly in
many of our "crazy" dreams. For
our survival it is ready, in its ran-
dom, illogical way, to act anytime
it senses there is an error that
redirection cannot reduce.

For example, you are locked in a
room with no food or water. Very
quickly your need for survival
and freedom becomes strong be-
cause other needs temporarily
turn off. You control only for
these quantities and as the error
increases you begin to redirect,
but what can you do? You notice
that there is a tiny slot in the win-
dow and you see people below,
but how can you get them the
message? There is in the room a
funny machine with several hun-
dred keys that looks like a type-
writer. There is also paper. You
put some in the machine, press
the keys, but all you get is gibber-
ish. You are desperate, your
redirection system is stymied.

Nevertheless you keep hammer-
ing away and in desperation press
three keys together, whistle Dixie,
and stomp the floor nine times.

Now you are reorganizing, trying
every possible combination, sensi-
ble as well as nonsensical, and as
you do so suddenly a letter ap-
pears. In fact it is the letter H. This
means that you might be able to
type the message help, so you re-
double your efforts. It appears
again and again and you focus on
how you produced it. Your
redirection system has grasped a
product of that random reorgani-
zation, but you contine to reor-
ganize. Anything you do that
might work is seized by the
redirection system, and if you
keep going and successfully learn
to produce enough letters to type
the message help, you now have a
possible redirection that can save
you. If no one responds when you
drop the message out the window
you will go back to reorganizing,
but now you have a chance. With-
out the message for help things
were hopeless. As you continue to
reorganize, your redirection sys-
tem may even learn how this cra-
zy typewriter works. If you have
to use it again you can do so with
little error.

We have said reorganization can
be lifesaving. After all it is the
only way we have to develop new
behaviors. But, as in our example
of the suicide, it can also be disas-
trous. Some years ago there was a
motorcycle race across Baja Cali-
fornia. One cyclist got lost, and
when he didn't appear at the next
checkpoint a rescue team went
out to look for him. He was found
dead several days later a few
miles from his shiny motorcycle,
which, incidentally, was found al-
most immediately. It was evident
from his tracks what had hap-
pened. He had stayed near it for a
while, then as his error grew he
began to panic. He disregarded
the information don't leave your
bike, stay where you are if you get
lost, and he started to redirect. He
tried to find the trail to the check-
point, but gradually as his panic
grew he began to reorganize. He
ran in large circles, exhausting
himself until he died of exposure,
lack of water, and eventually
from noninterrupted reorganiza-
tion. Maybe if he could have kept
alive longer he might have reor-
ganized successfully and found
someone in his random trek
through the desert. In panic we
always reorganize, but what may
happen is that the error is so
large and the redirection system
so ineffective that the results of
our reorganization are wiped out
by continuing reorganization be-
fore our redirection system can
test whether they might be benefi-
cial. With the motorcyclist we see
this occur. He just kept going until
he died. Pushed by a huge error,
he never stopped to evaluate that
his random trek was hopeless. It
is important to develop a good
redirection system which will
slow you down in moments of
panic and at least let you test
what your reorganization system
has provided. Reorganization is
invaluable in these situations, but
since it is random, it must be fil-
tered through a strong redirection
system or the lifesaving idea that
it may come up with is liable to be
overlooked.

We should learn to recognize
when our redirection system is
failing and develop some general
redirection strategies to avoid the
kind of panic and despondency
that may fragment this system so
much that we reorganize to our
own destruction. The main strate-
gy when panic "demands" action
is to slow down, count to ten, sit on
your hands, don't be in a hurry,
and if that doesn't work, ask for
help. If you recognize someone
else in this critical condition, offer
help. If the young man who
hanged himself could have redi-
rected himself toward a friendly
counselor, he might have found a
much better solution to his
problem. Evidently failure to take
other people into his confidence,
even though he seemed to have
some friendly people around, was
a fatal flaw in his redirection sys-
tem.

On the other hand, if we are in a
safe situation where we are look-
ing for new ideas or principles, as
in science or art, we should not be
afraid to take on a huge challenge,
to run a large error and still re-
fuse to do anything sensible to re-
duce the error. What we are do-
ing, which is a redirection, is try-
ing voluntarily to overwhelm our
sensible redirection system
enough to tempt our reorganiza-
tion system into action. It may
take us on a wild-goose chase, but
without it we would not have cal-
culus or the wheel. It is too bad
that schools can't push students
intellectually to reorganize and be
patient while they do. That sort of
pushing is something that teach-
ers could learn to do, but as long
as schools maintain the standard
that students be quickly penalized
for poor or slow results, few
teachers (or students) want to
have too much to do with this
sometimes slow, random, often
stupid, but potentially brilliant
system.

Scientific breakthroughs, like the
discovery of the theory of relativi-
ty or the invention of radio, which
are products of reorganization,
rarely occur in a formal school
setting. In those cases great
minds, struggling with huge per-
ceptual errors and unhampered
by academic restrictions, were
given a series of hints by their re-
organization systems, sometimes
even a dramatic jackpot, as when
Newton observed the apple or
Einstein at age four wondered at
a magnet. These perceptions
which initiated large intellectual
errors were later acted on by
their reorganization systems, and
their errors were reduced with
brilliant scientific insights. With
these insights others may redirect
to explain and explore the break-
through. But the initial break-
through, often seemingly illogical
at the time, is reorganization. Sci-
entists also have the ability to tol-
erate huge intellectual errors, that
is, to keep comparing stations
open for problems that most of us
would find too painful and shut
down. They are tolerant of their
stumbling reorganization sys-
items, almost like a patient gam-
bler or fisherman. They believe
the wait is worth it, as there even-
tually may be a lucky jackpot or
bite on their line. Therefore, the
true scientist reorganizes and
then may redirect. The engineer
redirects and then on occasion
may reorganize. When the engi-
neer reorganizes, he or she be-
comes a scientist.

With the explanation of how we
learn to behave, the basic model
of our brain functioning is almost
complete. Our behavior is an at-
tempt to control our preceptions
SO that they are as close as possi-
ble to our built-in perception de-
rived from genetic needs, or, in
short, BCP. With this much in
mind we must now return to
where we started, to perception,
because how we perceive the
world is much more complex
than we have explained so far.

7
The Orders of Perception

In the ancient Japanese play
Rashomon a wealthy nobleman
and his wife are set upon by a
bandit as they travel through the
forest. The bandit is caught and
brought to trial, during which
each tells the story of what he or
she says happened. The husband
tells how, after a fierce struggle,
the bandit overpowered him, tied
him up, raped his wife, and took
his money. The wife claims that
her husband was so cowardly
that he offered both her and his
money to the bandit to spare his
life. The bandit relates that when
he came upon the couple, the wife
became so enamored of him that
she threw herself upon him,
helped him to tie up her husband
SO that he could not interfere, and
Crying is not a response to the
stimulus of birth; crying is the
baby's behavior (BCP) to move the
energy it senses and interprets as
miserable, closer to the satisfacto-
ry uterine world that exists with-
in its head. Starting with our first
cry and continuing for the rest of
our life, we care about what is go-
ing on out there only as long as we
are unable to change it to be more
like the world in our head. If what
is out there is what we want, if
the real world is comfortable,
then in a sense we don't care at
all. We'll explain this more as we
go along, but here it's important to
try to get the idea that it is only
our world, or the world in our
head, that counts for us.

Therefore, based upon our needs,
we transform the energy from the
real or external world, which so
far we have talked about as a sin-
gle entity, input, into the complex,
not always conscious. Conscious-
ness can best be defined as any
perception that right now we
sense is going on. For practical
purposes we will generally be
aware of uncontrolled percep-
tions, or the perceptions associat-
ed with any control system that
contains a substantial error. A
simple example is that we are
aware of hunger several times a
day, but we are never aware of
breathing unless we run short of
air. Also, in this chapter, as we ex-
plain the hierarchy of how we
perceive the world, it will become
obvious that we behave to control
our perceptions according to the
hierarchy. When we are control-
ling for morality, a high, eighth-
order perception, we both per-
ceive and behave morally. This is
shown on the diagram inside the
cover as the dotted lines which
define the orders of our
brain at any order, one through
ten. To explain this I will arbitrar-
ily shade along each arrow and
stop the shading at the first order
for the uncontrolled perception
and the eighth for the controlled
perception. Note that the higher
order must include the lower or-
ders, as all perceptions, whatever
their order, include all the orders
below. As we explain how we per-
ceive the world, order by order,
this hierarchy should become
clear.

First-Order Perceptions-Intensity
At the first-order intensity all we
perceive is that something is
there, or something is there that is
different from what had been
there. This and only this is a first-
order perception. We call it inten-
sity because this term is a good
way to summarize all the simple
and complex energy signals that
come in through our sensory
we perceive the world, but not
part of the outside world. At the
next order up, sensation, they
might best be described as the
way we uniquely choose to inter-
pret our simple-intensity percep-
tion. For example, if our bottom
gets tired from sitting too long, we
discover that a soft chair is much
more comfortable. The intensity
signals that come to our brain
from the soft chair are, for longer
periods of time, reasonably close
to our reference level for comfort.

What we have done now is to
change intensity into a new, in-
our-own-head, second-order per-
ception that we call soft. The rea-
son that other people often call it
soft is that we are very much like
other people, especially at these
low orders of perceptions. But un-
like intensity, which is much the
same among all creatures of the
same species, softness, a
as we sit in the same room, she
complains it's too cold and I claim
it's too hot. Sometimes we argue,
but the argument is foolish. It can
never be resolved, because we are
not arguing about the real world.

We are arguing about the world
in our heads. We only think it is
the real world because we have
no neurological apparatus to tell
us differently. All we have that de-
tects the real world is our heat
and cold receptors on our skin
that measure intensity. But we are
not arguing intensity; we agree
that the thermometer on the wall
says 72 degrees.

Therefore, our perception of the
real world from which these in-
tensity signals emanate almost
immediately becomes completely
subjective. It is, except for intensi-
ty, our world and our world
alone. And it may or may not re-
late to your world or to someone
that particular world. They de-
pend upon it, but the form of that
dependence, the way they occur
and present themselves to our
brain, depends much more upon
what goes on inside our head
than upon the intensity signal (en-
ergy) that started the process."
Everyone of you has probably
participated in a simple experi-
ment of having someone whisper
a short but complex instruction to
another person, and then of hav-
ing that person whisper the same
instruction to the next person and
SO on through fifteen or twenty
people until the instruction comes
back to the original person. When
the instruction comes back it
probably has little or no resem-
blance to the original. On the oth-
er hand, when I dictate into my
tape recorder, except for the loss
of fidelity, what I dictate is going
to come back exactly as it went in.

The Chinese have developed the adage
that one (low-order) picture is
worth a thousand (higher-order)
words. But in court, if you have a
good lawyer, a thousand high-or-
der words may turn out to be con-
siderably better than a low-order
picture.

Therefore, keep in mind as we
live our lives that we create most
of the world inside ourselves. The
little bit that we actually contact
through sitting on a part of it,
hearing a bit of it, seeing a
glimpse of it, may be representa-
tive of the real world, but because
we add higher-order perceptions
SO quickly and without aware-
ness, there is no sure way of
knowing. Nevertheless, we each
live our life as if our world is the
real world. But since it isn't, as we
attempt to live with other people,
who all perceive their world as
real, life is difficult, because it is
we like, made up of a combina-
tion of sugar and citric acid, cre-
ates a sensation, the taste of lem-
onade, which is certainly second
order. The chemical receptors of
the tongue picked up the intensity
of the sugar and the intensity of
the acid as different first-order
perceptions. Our brain put these
perceptions together in the senso-
ry cortex to create a specific tart-
sweet taste that we know as lem-
onade. But even here, the lemon-
ade that I like in my world may be
much sweeter than that horrid,
sour stuff that you call lemonade
in your world.

Therefore, when first-order sig-
nals come in they are often disre-
garded, as we disregard the pres-
sure on our seat or the traffic
noise outside. Or, if we become
aware of them, they are quickly
transformed by our brain into a
higher order in an attempt to
matter how high we go we also
tend to experience feeling and
emotions along with the higher
perception. For example, it is
hard to perceive a situation as
moral or immoral (eighth order)
without also experiencing rather
strong accompanying second-or-
der feelings or emotions.

Third-Order Perceptions- Configurations

When a mixture of intensities
and sensations are put together
by the cortex, they may appear to
be something definite. For exam-
ple, a series of black curlicues on
white paper are recognized as let-
ters. Put the letters together and
we have words, sentences, para-
graphs, chapters, a book. Put
sounds together and we have lan-
guage. Put them together another
way and we have musical notes;
in a third way and we have
chords. Even if the sensation that
life, how uncomfortable it is
when you are greeted by a wom-
an you know but can't recall her
name.

Fourth-Order Perceptions-Control
of Transitions

When a configuration is pre-
sented in slightly different posi-
tions in rapid sequence, we get
both the perception of motion,
and with the motion sometimes a
change in shape. Something has
changed or, in our terms, has un-
dergone transition. It is still a con-
figuration, but now it is in the
process of becoming something
else. For example, the old nickel
turn-the-crank movies didn't
move if you turned the crank
slowly. You would just see a series
of configurations, perhaps Tom
Mix on his horse, one picture
looking pretty much like the rest.

But when you turned the crank
rapidly the slight difference in
to the extent it's physically possi-
ble. When you watch them, how-
ever, just watch what they do
(fourth order), how they move
and hit the ball. Don't say to your-
self how good they are, or how
hard they hit; just watch (we ex-
plain this shortly) without a
higher order of value judgment.

This is not easy, but recent coach-
ing advances utilize these con-
cepts.

Also remember that the tennis
ball is just a ball. It has no motiva-
tion, so don't ascribe motivation
to it. Don't say it's coming at me
murderously hard or wickedly
spinning. These higher-order per-
ceptions will increase your error
and make it harder for you to hit
the ball well. In athletics, as in
any endeavor, the greater the er-
ror the poorer the performance,
but it's more pronounced and
more quickly seen in athletics

Sixth-Order Perceptions-Control
of Relationships

Relationships are the way things
go together; they keep our world
predictable and prevent it from
being fragmented. What is most
puzzling to us in a foreign coun-
try are relationships which are
different from what we have
learned. Driving on the left side in
England is a typical relationship
which we have to learn quickly to
avoid disaster. Almost all scientif-
ic experiments are an attempt to
predict whether A varies from B.

For example, is poverty the cause
of crime? Or in everyday life,
please turn off the light when you
leave the room, or what is your
wife's brother-in-law to you?
From simple to complex we con-
tinually perceive and attempt to
control for relationships. Try to
think of living in a world without
relationships, where everything
seems separate, where all are
parts and no larger wholes ap-
pear.

In his study of the patient
Zharetsky, Alexander Luria, the
Russian neuropsychologist, who
worked over twenty years with
this brain-damaged victim of
World War II, reported that after
about three years, when
Zharetsky, who had made pro-
gress in the familiar hospital,
seemed able to go home, he was
able to deal sensibly with almost
nothing on the way. That is, he
knew a street was a street, a
house was a house, a cafe was a
cafe, but he couldn't figure out
how they related to those who
used them. For example, do you
go into a cafe to eat or to sleep?
None of the common relation-
ships meant anything to him.

When he finally entered his house
and saw his mother he did
recognize her (her configuration).

He was then able to see her rise
and move toward him-transition
and sequence-and he knew he
ought to do something, but what?
He stood there and did nothing,
because he couldn't remember
what it was that he ought to do.

Later, much later, as he overcame
the brain damage through prodi-
gious reorganization and redirection,
it came to him that he
should have kissed her, but at
that time, in his shattered mind,
his ability to perceive relation-
ships was shattered with it. More
about loss of control caused by
brain damage at this and other or-
ders is described in the fascinat-
ing book by Howard Gardner, The
Shattered Mind.*

Seventh-Order Perceptions-
Program Control

I want to go to San Francisco. I
plan to drive. I have some idea of
how to get there. To actually get
there what I will do is execute my
going-to-San-Francisco program.

First I want to perceive that my
car is filled with gasoline and
ready to go, to make sure I have a
road map and money. As I drive
north I encounter bad weather, a
bridge is out, and I take a detour.

My car overheats, and I have to
stop and get the radiator fixed. Fi-
nally, thirteen hours later I pull
into San Francisco. I have made
arrangements to stop at the Hilton
Hotel. I pull my car into the Hilton
garage, take my suitcases out, go
to the desk, and check in. I have
executed the go-to-San-Francisco,
stay-in-the-Hilton-Hotel program.

To get there I use all of the previ-
ous perceptual levels, especially
configuration, transition, se-
quence, and relationship. And in
using these, successfully control-
ling all of them, I eventually move
massive error at this order of per-
ception, because his program was
to record every word he uttered
for future historians to study.

Even though he might have
avoided impeachment he could
not raise his order of perception
and override his program. To
burn the tapes he would have had
to move up to the eighth order,
but his redirection system was
unable to do it.

Eighth-Order Perception Systems-
Control of Principles

Although much of what we per-
ceive and control is within the
first seven orders, what makes us
uniquely human is our ability to
perceive beyond the seventh or-
der. While it is possible that some
animals may operate beyond the
seventh order, most don't. The
primates, propoises, and whales
may be exceptions. At this order
we are talking about morality,
constant state of indecision which
would cause them to suffer a se-
vere evolutionary disadvantage.

To some extent we too, like ani-
mals, find it very hard to move up
and perceive the world at the or-
der necessary for our own bene-
fit. In our unwillingness to reduce
our consumption of gasoline how
much different are we from a
monkey who can be captured if
we put some nuts through a small
hole in a hollowed-out coconut?
The monkey thrusts his hand
through the hole, grabs the nuts
(seventh order), and then, locked
at this order, is trapped because
he is unwilling to alter his pro-
gram by opening his hand and re-
leasing the nuts. He seems to have
no more ability to perceive at the
eighth order that opening his
hand would be to his benefit than
we seem to have when we are
asked to alter our fuel programs
order, is how we decide what to
control for or what comparing
stations to keep open. Obviously
when we suffer a large error that
our behavior is not able to re-
duce, we must have a mechanism
to shut down the system or at
least one or more comparing sta-
tions. It is too painful to keep
them open and hope that a suc-
cessful reorganization will take
place, or in most cases, since we
know nothing about reorganiza-
tion, that we'll get lucky. Animals
obviously have no mechanism to
do this; if the monkey could stop
comparing for nuts and start com-
paring for freedom he would be,
from any standpoint except the
trapper's, better off. Having high-
order perceptions allows people
to do this, as most of us will quick-
ly surrender our money to a rob-
ber because our life is more im-
portant.

adverse political circumstances
many times in the past, and to
quit a fight seemed foreign to his
whole being. In terms of BCP,
what may have occurred in his
brain under increasing criticism
and political attack over his rigid
stand on Vietnam, was a substan-
tial perceptual error. In his head
he desperately wanted to win the
war, an eighth-order perception.

This order was supported by a
lower, sixth-order, patriotic rela-
tionship perception that the U.S.
always wins wars. But even with
the huge seventh-order power of
the presidency to run military
programs, he was stymied. Per-
ceptions that we were going to
lose flooded in, and he was busy
redirecting, devoting all his ener-
gy to the war, little to other mat-
ters. His redirection system be-
came inadequate to deal with the
conflict between wanting to be
illustrate is that above the eighth
order we are in a very difficult,
unclear, highly personal state of
perceptual control. A conceptual
system to you may not at all be
one to me, as, for example, I'm a
liberal, you're a conservative. Still
when our eighth-order principles
are in conflict we often try to
raise the order to close down con-
trol systems that may be as pow-
erful as remaining president and
as winning a war. Some people
choose to become Roman Catho-
lics, a ninth-order perception that
resolves many conflicts in their
lives, but many people in conflict
cannot find a ninth-order solution
and suffer indefinitely. In a sink-
ing boat how do you choose be-
tween your own life and that of a
close friend when there is only
one life preserver? Is there a
ninth-order concept that will al-
low you to make that choice? Not
at what this order could be, but
perhaps the great eastern masters
of Zen at times approach this or-
der when they achieve Satori,
which might be described as a
place or order in which all per-
ceptions of the world seem to be
unified into one. Some mystics of
other faiths also seem to reach
oneness. I personally see the
tenth order as a place where es-
sentially we control for nothing
but, since this is so hard, perhaps
in practice we reach the tenth or-
der if we can control successfully
for one very special idea, as when
we practice Zen or some other
forms of meditation.

Under these very rare circum-
stances what we try to achieve is
a situation where our only active
control system is operating with
no error. In this no-error situation
my guess is that we actually be-
come aware of our reorganization
experience this high order, a sub-
ject that will take up almost all of
Chapter 14, where we discuss
meditation and Positive Addic-
tion.

Alexander Luria, The Man with a Shattered
World (New York: Basic Books, 1972).

Howard Gardner, The Shattered Mind (New
York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1975).

8
The Worlds We Live In

Of the bits and pieces of history
that we still remember few are
better retained than Marie Antoi-
nette's statement, "Let them eat
cake." How stupid and insensitive
we thought she must have been
not to realize the effect of her re-
mark on peasants who had no
bread. Yet, in a lesser way we are
all Marie Antoinettes and give
foolish advice constantly. How of-
ten, for example, do we tell our
husband, wife, children, or
friends what they ought to do and
how they ought to do it, never re-
alizing that what we say may
make little sense to them. This is
because we tend to live our lives
as if there is something in the real
world called sense and we are en-
dowed with it. But as we have
could have joined that horrible
cult. He must have gone crazy!
And if Marie Antoinette had
known that her advice came from
her personal world, not from the
real world as she thought, she
might have made an effort to find
out about the peasants' access to
cake before she said what she did.

Therefore, because our false as-
sumption that our world is the real
world can be so devastating, we
need to learn as much as we can
how to avoid making this almost
universal mistake.

Our in-the-head world is built
from all the successful percep-
tions that have satisfied our gen-
eral needs. Everytime we success-
fully control for something, we
build the perception of that suc-
cess into our personal world. For
example, when we cry as an in-
fant and our mother comforts us
we build the idea of a comforting
memory, but if we continue to
want her active presence we will
be miserable.

We know, of course, that the rea-
son we control for mother and
build her into our personal world
is because she fulfills our needs. If
we had no need for love and com-
fort mother would not be in our
world. But when we built her into
our world then the outside world
where she really exists and our in-
the-head world where she exists
for us became one; they coincide,
and this coincidence makes it im-
possible for us to perceive them as
two worlds. It's like looking
through the view-finder of a split-
image camera: when it is in focus
all you see is one image. You have
to know there are two. There is no
way just by looking through the
viewfinder that you can find this
out. Therefore, because we don't
know of our two-world existence,
in-the-head world, and therefore
our two-world existence, we
would be much more sensitive to
the needs of others.

Knowledge of our two-world ex-
istence would also help us to have
more understanding of why we
and others seem to have so much
difficulty learning from experi-
ence. Remember that in this situa-
tion experience is unhappy or
frustrating, like losing a job, fail-
ing in school, or getting an unex-
pected divorce. Pleasant, need-ful-
filling experiences are no prob-
lem; we learn to spend money
easily if we have a windfall.

When we talk of someone not
learning from experience, like a
failing student who doesn't buck-
le down and study, the reason he
doesn't is that in his world study-
ing does not fulfill his needs. If it
did, the experience of failure
would cause him to study as it
home or kennel, feed her and pet
her, and in two days she is yours.

This is because the dog perceives
her owner more at the sixth order
(relationship), an easy order to
transfer, than at the eighth order
(love), which is hard to give up.

Marry a man who still grieves for
his dead wife, and you may never
have him for your own. To him
you are a sixth-order "compan-
ion" who cannot replace the
eighth-order wife who still exists
in his head. He has not learned
enough from the experience of
losing his wife to be able to love
again. If he knew he was living in
his personal world, not, as he
thinks, in the "real" world, he
would not complain of his new
wife's inadequacies; he would
make an effort to change himself.

Therefore not knowing of our
two-world existence and thinking
that we always live in the real
Chicago, the more we may also
believe we are smart, or our wife
loves us, or other parts of our per-
sonal world which we may find
more difficult to confirm. Every
time Marie Antoinette ate a fancy
cake she not only confirmed the
existence of cake, she falsely re-
confirmed the existence of her
whole aristocratic personal world
as the real world.

To explain further how our una-
wareness of our two-world exist-
ence complicates our lives, sup-
pose when you are in Chicago you
would rather be riding the surf at
Malibu. Then, as soon as you put
Malibu into your head, Chicago
will be unsatisfactory. Now it is
not where you want to be, and
while it is still in your head it
satisfies your needs less and less.

When this happens you begin the
task of removing Chicago from
your head. The longer you stay in
look around is already built into
our head to help us fulfill our
needs or at least not interfere
with them, we tend more and
more to assume that our world is
the real world, when in fact it is
not. As long as we deal mostly
with nonfrustrating things that
most of us have and use the same
way, this false assumption works,
and we can live in our own world
reasonably well. When we carry
this assumption over to people,
we're usually in trouble, because
people, unlike chairs, have needs
of their own. The more we deal
with them the more they tend to
interfere with our needs. This is
why, when we deal with people,
we must keep our in-the-head and
their in-the-head worlds in mind,
or we will suffer constant frustra-
tion. But even when we become
aware that all of us live in our
own world it is easy to forget,
showed up.

This also explains why no matter
how many times we tell others to
face reality, they rarely want to
face it. From their standpoint, to
face reality really means to face
our reality, and for them our real-
ity is almost always uncomforta-
ble. Not too many people admon-
ished Einstein with "Face it, Al-
bert; you're a genius, and we've
got to give you the Nobel prize."
Those who demand that others
face reality are more often saying,
"Face it Snodgrass, you're a fool,"
a bit of our reality that has done
little to lighten the burden carried
by the Snodgrasses of the world.

When we ask people to face our
reality we must also take into ac-
count whether this makes sense
to them in their world, an effort
not often extended by those who
make this demand.

The idea that we care little about
hatred can form such a large
sharing of worlds that people who
ordinarily would have nothing in
common get along well. War and
even religion tend to pull people
together to share their hatreds, al-
though families too often also do
a good job of uniting in bitterness.

Because our present affluent soci-
ety provides so many options for
fulfilling our needs, we tend to
create such dissimilar internal
worlds that we find it hard to lo-
cate the common ground neces-
sary to maintain long-term rela-
tionships. When people talk of the
good old days they are often talk-
ing of a time when, with less afflu-
ence and less opportunity, it
seemed to them that we shared
more common ground.

Finally, although we will cover
this later when we talk more of
marriage, to keep it or any close
relationship viable we must not

9
Conflict, Control, and Criticism

Recently I spent a cold winter eve-
ning with some Arizona friends in
front of their fireplace, relaxing,
talking, and eating homemade
candy. Next to me on the couch
was Princess, a fluffy cat who al-
ternately slept, stretched, or just
rested by the fire. I occasionally
disturbed his toes (Princess, it
turned out, should have been
Prince, but the discovery came
too late to change the name), but
he did little to control for this dis-
turbance except push gently
against my fingers. As I shared
the couch with this relaxed crea-
ture, I could not help thinking of
how little error he seems to expe-
rience. His family confirmed that
tonight was typical; he leads a life
you criticize someone, someone
criticizes you or, at times worst of
all, you criticize yourself. Sooner
or later control or criticism leads
to conflict; if not resolved it can
continue indefinitely, defying all
of our attempts to solve it. As we
will learn, it is the most difficult
situation our control system has
to face.

Conflict
As we first described in Chapter
2, there is in all of us the potential
for conflict among our basic
needs. In Chapter 7 we explained
how this conflict tends to surface
at the eighth order of perception
when we attempt to find a value
or principle that will allow us to
satisfy opposing needs. We gave
the example of two close friends
in a sinking boat with a life pre-
server buoyant enough for only
one. Could you float comfortably
and watch your friend drown?
sweating. Every muscle in the
contestants' bodies tense, but for
a long time their arms remain up-
right. Here is a perfect model of
what happens in our heads and in
our bodies when we are trying to
redirect or reorganize our percep-
tions for two or more incompati-
ble reference levels. Struggling to
move in two opposite directions
at the same time we feel tired,
dragged out, drained of energy or
ambition, as if we had carried a
load of bricks on our back, even
though physically we have done
little. We are tired because no
matter what we do to reduce the
error in one comparing station
we increase it by that same
amount in the other. And unfortu-
nately, we can't relax as the arm
wrestlers can when the match is
over. In our head we can wrestle
for years, go to sleep exhausted,
wrestle half the night in our
any movement toward one refer-
ence level will increase her error
toward the other, so she wavers
back and forth unable to resolve
the conflict. Driven by error she
desperately tries to find a compro-
mise or in-between reference lev-
el where there is less error. But
what in-between reference level
can she find? How can she be loy-
al and disloyal, or loving and non-
loving at the same time? Unwill-
ing to decide which way to go, she
is redirecting with every bit of
mental energy available to reduce
an error that cannot be reduced.

We see her, as she gets deeper
and deeper into the conflict, per-
haps choosing as a compromise
reference level to do less and less,
becoming discouraged as every
move to resolve the conflict is un-
successful. She may even begin to
redirect by sitting around the
house, listless, passive,
affair and enjoy it, but the
thought of leaving her husband
for a lover never crosses her
mind. Here she has a conflict be-
tween an eighth-order perception
of loyalty that will bind her to her
husband and family, and flirting,
a lower-order perception. Flirta-
tion is sixth-order (relationship)
because it is little more than the
biological interplay that will al-
ways occur between a flirtatious
female and an approachable male
or the other way around, a rela-
tionship that is as clear-cut as a
cup in a saucer. While she may
fantasize, even have moments of
guilt, as she toys with raising her
order of perception above flirta-
tion, the higher-order marriage
perception will prevail in the way
she generally redirects her life.

Another option for the woman
torn between eighth-order love
VS. loyalty is to try to resolve the
the therapist may persuade the
woman to do something about the
situation by lowering the order of
perception of one side of the con-
flict. For example, to force herself
to try for a month to relate exclu-
sively to her husband and avoid
her lover. If she can follow this ar-
bitrary seventh-order program, it
may allow her some time off from
the conflict. If she cannot perceive
her husband as more or less valu-
able than her lover during this
month it may not work, but arbi-
trarily trying to live for a while on
one side may make that side more
or less attractive. Or she may try
the same approach with her lov-
er, seeing him exclusively for a
month and hoping that he will be-
come more or less important than
her husband during this time. Ob-
viously this is difficult, but getting
people actively to live a seventh-
order program for a trial period,
husband's and the wife's order of
perception moves up to the unconflicted,
we-love-our-children-more-than-ourselves,
ninth order, during the sickness. During
the necessary lull while the child
is sick, the love affair may drop
all the way to the second-order
sensation, hardly a sufficient per-
ception to keep it going.

It is also possible that the wife
could get sick, depress, or become
crazy, all as a result of the conflict,
which could get her husband's at-
tention or cause the lover to lose
interest. Few lovers are as under-
standing about sickness or disa-
bility as Robert Browning. There
is also the possibility that her lov-
er, who also must share some of
the conflict, will recognize that
she just can't handle the strain
and quietly leave. She might
grieve for a while, but separation
usually resolves the conflict.

unloving toward our husband, so
we gain little. Our husband starts
to drink a lot, and then we yell at
him to stop drinking. One conflict
replaces the other because we
never really resolved the first. We
try to settle for unsatisfactory or
compromise reference levels, but
all we accomplish is to drain our
energy. As this occurs we get
more and more tired, redirect less
and less efficiently, and are forced
to turn to our reorganization sys-
tem; almost all painful reorgani-
zation is the result of conflict.

It is no wonder that minority groups
tend to reorganize with high
blood pressure and many chronic
illnesses (we explain this later),
because to be a minority is to be
in almost constant angry conflict
between what you perceive you
must do to get along, and what
you would like to do to satisfy
your own needs.

But member of a minority group or not, as time goes on we become more
and more aware that conflicts exist between ourselves and the others we
heed. It seems as if conflicts tend to multiply, perhaps because as we grow
older the limited time we have starts to concern us. We more and more want
to do what we want. When we do it, however, often it causes us to be in more
conflict with those around us. The success of many consciousness-raising
programs, assertiveness training, and other such popular psychological di-
versions, especially among middle-aged people, is often based upon the at-
tractive message: pay more attention to your needs and less attention to the
needs of others. In other words, see yourself at the center of the world (ninth
order), and the rest of the world at the eighth order or below, and you will
have no conflict. As long as this is done by only a few people, it may be help-
ful to them. If, however, everyone were continually assertive or looked Out
mostly for themselves, there would be a lot of lonely people trying to con-
vince themselves they didnt need others. In time, the self-centered person
turns even his friends away. I am not knocking assertiveness, just saying that
ike all forceful behaviors it must be used with caution. It is, for example, a
good way to protect yourself during casual encounters with people who try
to push you around, but unless it leads to compromise, it doesn't work well
among intimates for any long period of time, Think of it as a great way to sell
a used car but to be practiced cautiously on your next-door neighbor.
As we grow older, among the people we live with we strive for a perceptive
palance, to find a compromise value that minimizes conflicts. That is why
there is always strain among people who live and work closely together, be-
cause life with our family or other intimates must be filled with compro-
mises. It is impossible that we share exactly the same reference levels, but if
we as intimates practice openness, negotiate our differences early before we
get locked into defending our position, we can learn to live together success-
fully. There is no other way. If we don't learn to do this, we become more and
more anxious as time goes on, fearing that each new demand will unbalance
the control systems that are keeping us from conflict and disrupt the rela-
ionship with blowups that may drive a permanent wedge between us and a loved one.

For example, a child who was so
cooperative at ten becomes a terror
at sixteen, doing things which
upset us and threatening to run away
if we get too restrictive.

Our behavior therefore becomes a
combination of rigidity and
permissiveness as we buzz back
and forth among a variety of
conflicting (eighth-order) refer-
ence levels regarding our child.

Here it is necessary to raise the
perception of the child to the
ninth order, decide upon a long
range plan, and stick to it. If we
can look at the child at the ninth
order, as a whole human being
trying to grow up in a tough
world with needs of his own, and
keep in mind that to us the child
lives in his world not ours, we
may be able to tolerate a lot of be-
havior that at the eighth order
would cause us conflict. It's hard
to stand by and see the child get
destroy the unconflicted, like Joan
of Arc, who communed freely
with both God and the powerless
peasants. When these rare people
are safely dead we try to resolve
our conflict over killing them by
honoring them as saints or heroes.

Control and Self-Control

It follows, therefore, that to re-
duce conflict and to keep order
most cultures traditionally at-
tempt to control people who
might place their personal needs
above the needs of those in pow-
er. They do so through laws, cus-
toms, and the liberal use of puni-
tive sanctions. They continually
attempt to educate people to the
virtues of self-control, of over-
coming one's weaknesses, of keep-
ing one's desires in check, of hold-
ing to the right path. This is an at-
tempt by political leaders at the
highest level down to bigger
self-control, it takes a huge
amount of strength, more than is
available to most of us. What peo-
ple are talking about when they
expound the virtue of self-control
is somehow or other to gain the
strength to make no effort to get
what we want, in BCP terms to
deny the existence of a large-error
signal.

Self-control or self-discipline, as
most of us believe in it, is a myth.

It cannot exist, because if we can-
not reduce the error, the error sig-
nal will cause us to reorganize.

Few authors understood this as
well as Somerset Maugham who,
in the story "Rain," depicts the
married but passion-starved mis-
sionary, Rev. Davidson, desperate-
ly attempting to control his own
sexual frustrations through zeal-
ous religious redirection. Until he
was aroused by the prostitute Sa-
die Thompson, praying and
reorganization, good or bad, that
makes great literature.

What often distinguishes civiliza-
tion from most primitive coopera-
tive societies is that in the former
the strong and the clever exploit
the weak and the less clever. In
primitive societies, even gorilla
societies, the strong dominate, but
they do not usually exploit. In
democratic societies this is done a
little less, because in any democ-
racy there are nonviolent path-
ways for the weak and the less
clever to get some control over
their own lives and avoid exploi-
tation. Protecting the rights of the
weak and the less clever has nev-
er, however, been popular, even
in democracies. Most civilizations
have followed Clarence Day's little
poem, "Might and right are al-
ways fighting,/In our youth it
seems exciting,/Right is always
nearly winning/Might can hardly
keep from grinning."

History is replete with instances
of one man controlling a whole nation;
perhaps Chairman Mao controlled
more people than any man in his-
tory. He did so, of course, "for
their own benefit." All successful
dictators soon learn the ways of
big brother. Even in the little dic-
tatorships of parents and teach-
ers, after the administration of
corporal punishment the punisher
may with feigned sincerity re-
mark, "It hurts me more than it
hurts you." It helps the punisher's
own conflicting needs to believe
that he is compassionate as he
seeks the control of others. Com-
passionate or not, however, it is
not possible to control another
without causing conflict in that
person, unless through some mira-
cle the reference levels in the con-
troller and the controlled are iden-
tical or very close.

But that doesn't stop us from trying. Husbands attempt to control wives,
and wives husbands, parents children, children parents, big children little
children, boys girls, girls boys, teachers students, bosses workers-the list is
endless. Just review in your mind and see how many times in one day some-
one attempted to control you. And how many times you attempted to control
somebody else. Look around and see; attempts at control are all around us.
What we must learn is the hard fact that most of us dissipate much of our
strength in attempting to control others, strength that we urgently need to
compromise and negotiate, to ratify our needs and theirs. But can you picture
many people willing to stop trying to control someone? Are you? Even if you
agree that it is desirable, are you willing to be first, or must you wait for me?

Is it any wonder that democracy is
so fragile? How could it be robust
if in our personal lives, es-
pecially as we grow up, we almost
never experience it?
But if we are not concerned
about the conflict we cause, there
is no doubt that we can control
other people's behavior. This has
been done since time immemorial
and will continue unabated re-
gardless of the misery it causes. I
can control you (at least for a
while) if I can control something
you desperately want to get or to
avoid. For example, if I want you
to dig a ditch that you don't want
to dig and I point a gun at you and
say, "Dig," you will likely begin
moving dirt. It is important, how-
ever, that I keep the gun on you
and that you be convinced that if
you don't dig, I will shoot. If I re-
lax for a moment you may take
control by bashing in my head
but it was not what you wanted,
and the error became too painful.

I failed to control you because I
took money for granted; I didn't
know what you wanted.

In another case, you want money
but I offer you too much. This is
inappropriate; it causes mild con-
flict and you redirect with guilt.

Eventually you slack off or quit if
the guilt becomes too painful.

Again reward didn't work, be-
cause I didn't guess the right
amount. Equally ineffective is the
far more common case when I
don't offer you enough, but here
there is little conflict.

In none of these examples of con-
trolling you with reward have I
caused you serious conflict. Seri-
ous conflict does occur through
the use of reward when, for ex-
ample, I give you money but you
resent it. You want money, you
want it very much, but your
negotiation, and they are becom-
ing more and more important as
we move into an identity society
where people generally seem to
be demanding more control over
their lives.

Punishment is still the most wide-
ly used and advocated way to con-
trol others, probably because, un-
like reward, there is never any
doubt that punishment will pro-
duce error, pain, and almost al-
ways a change in behavior. But
most punishment produces only
short-term control. There is no
good evidence that punishment
will control people to do what you
want them to do over any long pe-
riod of time, because when you
hurt people, you always increase
their error.

Since pain is generally not
considered desirable, in most
cases you provoke an immediate
conflict between what the person
would like to do and the fact that
suffer much more error than we
need to because we don't under-
stand how much error criticism
causes in our lives. For example,
yesterday's sports pages were
filled with UCLA's victory over
Notre Dame in basketball. UCLA
had lost earlier in the year in a
game that was almost a carbon
copy of the game they won. Both
games were decided by free
throws in the last few seconds,
the UCLA player missing in the
first game and hitting in the se-
cond.

Gary Cunningham, the UCLA coach,
said that in the first game, during
the time out that the opposition
always takes before a critical
free throw to rattle the free thrower,
he talked to his player and told him
to be sure to concentrate.

He missed. In the second game,
fighting back the urge to repeat
his mistake, he said nothing. Tyren
Nauls hit and even hit them,
for failing to play like Reggie
Jackson or Roger Staubach.

Driven almost to madness by the
error of losing, coaches crucify
little children for their inability
to perform under high pressure.

Many young players learn to hate
the game they play because of the
pain caused by disapproving coaches
and parents. At the age when they need
compassion and support, when
they don't need the adult win-at-
all-costs standard, they are loaded
with so much error that they can't
perform. This is strongly illustrat-
ed in the 1976 movie The Bad News Bears.

Work, marriage, religion, govern-
ment are all vast arenas in which
excessive criticism flourishes un-
checked. How many people learn
to hate their jobs because they re-
ceive so much criticism? How
many marriages fail-from the
someone whom we can never es-
cape, ourselves. For example,
most of the people who have fall-
en prey to cultists were drowning
in self-criticism long before they
met their leader. Why do we do
this to ourselves? Why do we en-
gage in this destructive, error-pro-
ducing behavior? Why can't we,
as Princess does so well, accept
ourselves, our needs, and our be-
havior without constantly saying
to ourselves that we are incompe-
tent, that we don't do enough,
well enough, often enough, and
with enough things or people?
The source of self-criticism is an
abortive attempt to reduce error.

When we kick ourselves for for-
getting our lunch, hitting a bad
shot, failing to perform while
making love, or when we blame
ourselves for a child's running
away, we do so in an unrealistic
attempt to change behavior that
also a loud call for help, if not to
people then to the gods who con-
trol the sport. But again, if called
on too often, neither people nor
gods (nor ourselves) respond. Per-
haps when we were very little
they did offer us solace which re-
duced our error, but this doesn't
happen often after infancy. It's
much more likely, after many ex-
pletive outbursts, that no one will
want to play with us. Therefore,
when the gods or more tangible
creatures fail to respond, we are
left with the perception that not
only is the shot no good, but we
also are no good, a high-order
perception that starts a vicious cy-
cle of increasing error.

This then is the core of self-criti-
cism. It is, except with rare indi-
viduals, directed more at our-
selves than at our behavior. Se-
vere self-criticism can lead to er-
ror so large that we may
example, I drive down the center
of the road and block traffic. I feel
fine, the road seems clear to me,
and I decide my speed is good
enough for everyone. The police-
man who stops me induces an er-
ror when he gives me a ticket, but
this error is usually helpful, be-
cause how to correct my behavior
is obvious and I should correct it.

We can't let people go blindly on
their way disrupting the world,
but when we criticize them we
must also show them a better
way. Also in therapy, as we dis-
cuss later, if self-criticism is not
present then it is important that
the therapist get her client to take
a critical look at what he does. No
one will change his behavior
without first accepting that what
he is doing now isn't working.

Therapy, however, is a special
case where a caring therapist is
there to help us to behave better,
part of our culture, wrongly
thought to be constructive be-
cause we don't understand how
our brain works. Any culture that
understood BCP would never
have woven anything as destruc-
tive as criticism into its fabric
without making sure that it was
not taken personally and that the
wrong could be righted. But it is
obviously here to stay. All we can
do as individuals is to understand
both its value and its danger and
do our best to stop using it unless
we are reasonably sure we can
criticize in a way that will lead to
less, not more, error.

Clarence Day, After All (New York: Alfred A.  Knopf, 1936), p. 277.

William Glasser, The Identity Society (New York: Harper & Row, 1972).



10
The Misery We Choose and
the Misery That Happens to Us

Every afternoon for three hours a
Los Angeles radio station employs
a psychologist to advise listeners
on their personal problems. It's a
popular program and I listen to it
frequently. What never fails to
surprise me is that the problems
people call in about are so much
alike. From the first sentence I
can almost always predict not
only the problem but often the
words the caller will use to de-
scribe the difficulty. Whether they
are men or women, young or old,
mostly they complain that they
are upset because the people in
their lives do not behave as they
would like them to. Less often,
behavioral process not well de-
fined by the usual, too passive, it-
happened-to-me, I-have-nothing-
to-do-with-it term depression.

Considering the fact that so many
people choose to redirect their
lives by depressing, one is also
tempted to believe it is genetic. It
is not difficult to convince our-
selves that this misery is built-in
much the same as an ant and a
bee have certain genetically built-
in behaviors that they invariably
follow to control certain percep-
tions. We believe that almost all of
us have the capacity to depress,
but, as with walking or mating,
we still must learn to use this ca-
pacity. Certainly we have no
shortage of examples to learn
from as we grow, but even so I be-
lieve that our first experience
with depressing comes as a result
of an early reorganization. We
desperately reorganized, perhaps
better. This step, giving up, is a
typical human response to uncon-
trolled error. But it works only
when what is given up is satisfac-
torily replaced.

For example, when the client had
been separated for a while and
felt better, she might reopen her
love-companionship comparing
station and again take a chance
that someone new could satisfy
her needs. Finding another lover
is much more difficult than, for
example, becoming frustrated
with golf and giving it up for ten-
nis, something many of us do suc-
cessfully all the time. If her search
was unsuccessful or she was re-
jected again, she might try to give
up on love and companionship
permanently, reasoning that it is
just too painful to keep these sta-
tions open. People attempt this
frequently, and they may even
succeed in keeping them shut for
better than anger.

But depressing, as all of us know
too well, is neither satisfactory re-
organization nor redirection; it is
miserable, painful, and inactivat-
ing. Still, along with the woman
and the student, once we pass in-
fancy, almost everyone will
choose to depress to deal with an
error, because it seems to us the
best of a group of bad choices. For
example, when giving up on her
marriage did not work, when my
client felt the acutely painful er-
ror of living without love and
companionship she didn't want to
redirect with depression. But she
also rejected anger, and try as she
might she couldn't close down her
love station, so she began to reor-
ganize. Very quickly, as this sytem
gained momentum, a whole series
of possible behaviors flashed
through her mind. Some may
have been desperate, angry,
she might be more active in find-
ing a better one. But she is passive
and accepting that she is a victim,
a feature of this behavior that
makes it so ensnaring.

We recognize that it is also possi-
ble that she might have redirected
better and perhaps solved the
problem by finding someone else
and falling in love with him. She
might also have gone to a mar-
riage counselor, learned to talk
more satisfactorily with her hus-
band, got involved in marriage
encounter weekends, or settled
for the fact that her husband
loves her and can give her some
but not all of what she wants in
the marriage. I am sure if you lis-
ten to the Los Angeles radio sta-
tion I mentioned, you will hear all
of these possibly satisfactory
redirections suggested over and
over, because marriage problems
are a constant complaint. The
would rather redirect with de-
pressing or another symptom.

Third, depressing allows us to ask
for help. Who is not moved to of-
fer help to an obviously depress-
ing person, and what depressing
person does not feel helpless and
therefore justified in asking for
help? Could you as easily ask or
get help if you felt strong and ca-
pable? Fourth, as we continue to
depress we find that others who
are close to us and who don't like
to see us upset are easier to con-
trol. A husband who fishes too of-
ten and leaves us alone will can-
cel a trip and stay home because
we are so depressed. These are
the main reasons that our
redirection system chooses de-
pressing; there are probably more
but all of these serve as an effec-
tive way to keep our error as low
as possible.

We turn to depressing often
acceptable to us. Even better than
anxietying or depressing, guilting
allows even more behavioral lee-
way, and very often it is a useful
feeling behavior, because it does
tend to cause us to rid ourselves
of it by correcting what we are
doing wrong. Contrary to what is
popularly believed, if Rev. David-
son had felt even more guilty
about what he did, he might not
have killed himself. His problem
was he didn't feel guilty enough,
and because he didn't, he proba-
bly contemplated doing it again.

This is what caused the severe
conflict that he reorganized away
with suicide. If he had guilted
more he would have had less con-
flict.

Guilt also is the most correctable
of these three behaviors because,
unlike depression and less like
anxiety, it is related more to our
behavior, which we could learn to
different are all much better ways
to reduce error than taking a
chance with angry behavior. Very
young children, who quickly be-
come angry when frustrated,
need to be taught some alterna-
tive ways to redirect at home and
in school. Unfortunately, many of
them when they express anger
are forcibly squelched or pun-
ished, which leads them to reor-
ganize and then to redirect inef-
fectively with depressing, anxiety-
ing, and guilting. Some children,
however, are so neglected that
they never even learn these ways
to handle their anger, and they
continue to use angry acting-out
behavior all of their lives. Ani-
mals almost all learn alternatives
to anger; for them it is an impor-
tant survival skill seen as submis-
sion. Many people, however, seem
to lack this knowledge.

Perhaps in the beginning, anger
force of angry redirection. Some-
times, as in the French Revolution
the leaders stir the people to reor-
ganize, and when this happens
even they may be caught up and
destroyed in the process. The re-
organization system has respect
for no one.

Angry people become disruptive
in school, engage in juvenile de-
linquency, and later branch into
adult crime. They tend to use alco-
hol (to be discussed), and under
its influence angry redirection is
more pronounced. They often en-
gage in a whole series of destruc-
tive, senseless crimes that we all
fear and spend much of their lives
in juvenile halls, reformatories,
and prisons. Sometimes given
time by prison, they redirect their
lives constructively, but more of-
ten continue their angry behavior
or learn to depress. Because pris-
on does little to reduce the
reorganize temporarily or for
long periods.

Because our dealings with the
real world are so painful we may
treat what we have created with-
in our behavioral system, for ex-
ample, a hallucination, as if it
were really the world. Because
the psychotic perceptions are ac-
tually our own behaviors, we of-
ten create a new crazy internal
world that satisfies our needs. For
us our reorganization has re-
placed the "painful" world, and a
psychotic person may drink his
own urine and say it is wine or
the elixir of life.

Some psychosis is much more be-
nign than others. We have a
whole series of mildly psychotic
behaviors called obsessions and
compulsions. These are situations
in which a person for no obvious
or sensible reason engages over
and over in some sort of useless
the house. They are afraid to
drive on the freeway, fly in a
plane, go into a crowded room,
get into an elevator, look out from
the top of a high building. There
are as many phobias as there
seem to be Greek words to de-
scribe them. A phobia is an unre-
alistic fear, a fear which is created
for the sole purpose of reducing
perceptual error. When a person
believes that if he leaves his
house he will be tempted to do
something that he shouldn't do or
be rejected by people he might
meet or harmed by people he
fears to encounter, all of these
possible perceptual errors can be
eliminated by simply staying
home. All phobias in some way
serve the same purpose; they
eliminate a part of the phobic
world that people believe they
cannot control. The fear restricts
the phobic to a "safer" internal
what we need, that rather than
try to force it into reducing our
error, as angry, acting-out people
do, or accepting the incomplete
error reduction of the other feel-
ing behaviors, we attempt to reor-
ganize it away. By this I mean that
we don't stop reorganizing when
we have reorganized a small part
of reality away, as does an obses-
sive, compulsive, or phobic per-
son. We reorganize away whole
blocks of reality and, in some rare
instances, all of it. But remember,
as we explained in Chapter 8,
when we talk of reality we are
talking of our own internal world,
which we believe is reality, and it
is this world that becomes crazy.

Here we are talking about psycho-
sis,
or
more
accurately,
psychosing, which is the most
common way we can actually ob-
serve ongoing, long-term new-
brain reorganization as it changes
running around in their head to
prevent them from seeing, hear-
ing, or contacting the outside
world. Many times this is how
they begin, with a wild confusion
and often a mixing of perceptions
from the real world with those in
their head, a mass of perceptual
gibberish which effectively blots
out the world. Later, as they con-
tinue to reorganize, their percep-
tions may become more struc-
tured and go beyond blotting out
the world to create hallucinations
or delusions which replace it. Ini-
tially their hallucinations may be
horrifying, their voices may call
them vile names, thus "proving"
to them that indeed the real
world, where they think the
voices are coming from, is no
good. When this happens the psy-
chotic reorganization has devel-
oped a crazy, error-reducing per-
sonal world where they may
crazy when they are visited by a
family member. It is perhaps a
love-hate relationship with their
family that is the source of their
conflict. Away from their family
they have little error. Many psy-
chiatrists believe that the crazi-
ness comes from a chemical im-
balance much as a normal person
becomes crazy under the influ-
ence of a drug like LSD. Perhaps
in unusual instances this may be
the case, but I think that it is the
rare person, psychotic or not, who
makes any of these symptomatic
choices without a severe percep-
tual error caused by an unresolv-
able conflict. It is not chicken or
For the most part the psychotic is
so wrapped up in his own world,
his own thoughts, his own false
perceptions that he has little or no
desire to deal with the outside
world. The exception to this is
pain-control clinic. In a recent
book, he describes how many
people suffer from these physical
symptoms.

He claims for exam-
ple, that over ten million people
suffer from migraine headaches
in some form and that low-back
pain is disabling to seven million
more. Bresler estimates that
chronic pain costs our economy
over $50 billion annually.

All of these symptoms seem to
serve the same error-reducing
function as depressing and in BCP
language are best called paining
or disabling. By causing the suf-
ferer to be sick and helpless, they
more than keep the anger in
check, and above all they allow
the disabled person, perhaps even
more easily than any of the other
symptoms, to be offered help, or
to seek it. And as medicine be-
comes more organized and glori-
fied, people tend to choose
weak.

Suppose at age forty-five we be-
gin to suffer persistent, severe
headaches and consult a doctor.

Using all the resources of modern
medicine the doctor can probe
into almost every part of our
physical functioning, but often, af-
ter he does so, he tells us that he
can find nothing physically
wrong. Puzzled, we persist and
ask why it is we are having these
blinding headaches several times
a week, if there is nothing physi-
cally wrong. It is precisely at this
question that much of the ma-
chinery of modern medicine
grinds to a halt. Whether it is
asked of the local general practi-
tioner whom you trust or of the
Mayo Clinic after they have exam-
ined you for three full days, the
question is rarely answered satis-
factorily, because there is no med-
ical
test
for
unsuccessful
critical period he must try to keep
clear minded, sociable, and
friendly, work hard, and do the
right thing. But even as he does so
he perceives that each day the de-
cision isn't made seems to him to
be a step backward. He then be-
gins to suffer the blinding head-
aches. They occur at home, but
they leave him washed out. At
work he looks drained and
drawn, and when he mentions the
headaches he is given the advice
that he ought to see a doctor. But
we already know the doctor will
find nothing physically wrong.

Probably he redirected with
headaching because he desperate-
ly wanted to be able to go to
someone and say, "Help me." Ra-
tionally he knows no one can help
him, but that doesn't stop him
from wanting to get help. He can't
beg for the promotion; that would
increase his error, so he develops
addicting medication, a subject
we will take up in a further chap-
ter. Nonaddicting aspirin is excel-
lent for real physical pain, but
does not seem to relieve the pain
of symptomatic redirection. The
aspirin test is a very helpful way
to tell the difference between a
physically caused symptom that
aspirin will relieve and the symp-
tom behaviors being discussed
here.

A tremendous amount of time, ef-
fort, and money goes into the
medical care of symptomatic
redirection. If the care is
perceived as making the world a
better place, a more caring place,
or a placebo is given with a strong
suggestion from the doctor that
this will help, medical care is
sometimes effective. More often,
however, medical care com-
pounds the problem. Doctors who
examine more and more, test
told me I was dealing with a per-
son who was asking for care, for
help, and most of all for me to ac-
cept him as sick. I did not consid-
er this question unethical or a
trick, because I was desperately
trying to help those who didn't
need it to avoid serious back sur-
gery.

Unfortunately, physicians who do
not recognize the eagerness of the
redirection system to augment the
symptom do not help their pa-
tients by prescribing complicated
medical tests. Many patients are
made worse and suffer more
through medical testing and med-
ical treatment than if they had no
medical care. We are not saying
they should get no care. What we
are saying is that when there are
no physical findings, medical
treatment should be severely lim-
ited. We recognize that faulty
redirection is difficult to treat, but
this miserable, painful behavior?
What could I do to get what I need
from the world that would be so
much better than this?" Say these
sentences to yourself for depress-
ing or any other symptoms sever-
al times a day, and you will quick-
ly begin to redirect more ade-
quately, if you have a reasonably
functioning redirection system.

And since most of us have such a
system, once we recognize that
faulty behavior is at the root of
our pain, we need not settle for
the misery we choose.

David Bresler, with Richard Trubo, Freedom
From Pain (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1979).

11
Diseases of Eeorganiza tion
Not long ago a colleague told me
of a man that he has treated for
years. Now in his mid-forties the
patient has suffered from chronic
eczema of both hands since he
was in high school. It weeps and
oozes so badly that at times he
must wear gloves. All treatments
have been tried, from x-rays to
cortisone, with no success. Re-
cently, however, the patient was
able to make a trip to his native
Ireland, a journey he had had his
heart set upon since he came here
at ten years of age. Within three
days after he arrived in Galway
his hands were clear. The eczema
melted away, and for the three
weeks he was able to stay, his skin
was normal. When he returned
home, within a week his hands
that the new brain in a crazy at-
tempt to satisfy its own needs is
even capable of refusing the basic
old-brain demand for food. The
victim may get sick and die of
malnutrition, but this is not a dis-
ease of reorganization of the old
brain. The crazy reorganization
and redirection is in the new
brain. The old brain is perfectly
capable of regulating the digestive
machinery if they will eat, and
once they start eating most be-
come physically normal in a mat-
ter of weeks. The purpose of this
illustration is to show that the
new brain can reorganize to the
extent that it can deny the old
brain the food it needs to keep the
body alive. This again illustrates
that there is no absolute priority
of one brain over the other; this is
individual and is not predictable.

There are also times when the
old brain takes precedence and
system, reorganized successfully
and function was restored. It can
rearrange our body chemistry,
conduction pathways, hormonal
control, and immune capacity
rapidly but probably randomly
until it corrects the error. We are
sure that in many cases this reor-
ganization is unsuccessful, and in
many serious injuries or illnesses
the person dies reorganizing, but
the point is that when the old
brain detects an error beyond its
normal ability to correct, it will. If
the error is corrected it will store
this mechanism in its own
redirection system to use again,
and this is how its central capaci-
ty grows. If the man suffered an-
other heart attack the old brain
might redirect and quickly correct
the arrhythmia. This process is,
however, totally unconscious; it is
completely physiologic, and it
probably goes on continually as
and
probably most people
couldn't even do it the first time,
because there is no assurance that
this or any reorganization will
work. What makes it newsworthy
is that it worked for her, but it's
not something most of us could
count on if we were in a similar
situation. Of course, once the
baby was safe her perceptual er-
ror disappeared and the refer-
ence level in her muscles was re-
set to normal. This quick, one-
time physiologic reorganization is
described here only to show that
the old brain can reorganize, of-
ten successfully, and do what nor-
mally it is unable to do. Also, be-
cause this reorganization is quick-
ly shut down there is usually no
damage to the body. If this reor-
ganization had for some reason
persisted, if she continued to
drive her muscles with that ex-
treme reference level she
we suffer psychosis, our interac-
tion with the world is greatly dis-
rupted, and without help at times
we might not survive. In the old
brain chronic reorganization is
also highly abnormal. It disrupts
the normal physiology (it could be
viewed as a psychosis of the old
brain) and almost always causes
chronic physical sickness such as
the eczema of the man described
in the beginning of this chapter.

Often, as in eczema, it need not
kill us, but it can be fatal. Heart
disease, an extremely common re-
sult of old-brain reorganization, is
the leading cause of death in this
country.

Initially described by cardiolo-
gists but by now common knowl-
edge is the fact that there is a
type-A driving personality who of-
ten suffers severe coronary-artery
disease. A type-A person is some-
one driven by a high need for
he rejects them. He needs his wits
about him, and feeling behaviors
would increase his error. Even
though he may suffer large and
chronic error, he is never in dan-
ger of psychotic reorganization,
because he is competent, his
redirection system is highly func-
tional. Sooner or later he may
raise the stakes too high or contin-
ue the game so long that he suf-
fers such error that he involves
his old brain. Although he does
not do this purposely and has lit-
tle or no awareness it is happen-
ing, he raises the reference levels
in his old brain much like the
woman whose child was trapped
under the car. But unlike her he
raises the levels and keeps them
high, a chronic not an acute pro-
cess. When this occurs, although
his first awareness of the process
may be a heart attack, he has
started a long-term old-brain
The old brain is designed to moni-
tor the error in the new brain,
and to respond by raising or low-
ering its reference levels to pro-
vide the physiology needed to re-
duce the error, but it never has
any understanding of why. And un-
til modern times and the advent
of chronic new-brain errors there
was never any reason to know
why; primitive mankind did not
suffer significantly from diseases
of reorganization. Perhaps if the
human race survives long enough
we will evolve to where the old
brain will be able to "recognize"
that its excessive unnatural reor-
ganization is driving some part or
parts of the body to disease. Until
that time, however, the old brain,
responding as if the type-A
needed increased cardiovascular
output, increases his heartbeat,
his blood pressure, elevates his
blood sugar, raises in his blood
myself that things are good when
they are not. Even our feeling be-
haviors are good ways to redirect,
at least for a while. If we fail to
use these ways we become more
vulnerable to heart disease,
strokes, asthma, chronic allergy,
arthritis, and other autoimmune
disease. This claim is supported
by a recent article which indicates
that cancer patients who express
upset survive longer. If we do get
sick with one of these diseases it
is hard to get good care, because
they are so physical, so related to
bodily dysfunction that both we
and our doctors find it difficult to
believe that there are not clear-
cut physical or "real" causes for
the illnesses. It has taken medi-
cine a long time to realize that
rheumatoid arthritis, a very com-
mon crippler, and its related auto-
immune diseases are conditions
in which our own immune
swelling, and all the other signs
during which the infection is
overwhelmed and homeostasis is
restored. What makes us feel sick
is not necessarily the outside
agent-that is often relatively in-
nocuous-it is our bodies' frantic
redirection to close the error
which is induced by our percep-
tion of that agent.

What we experience as a com-
mon cold is not usually the inva-
sion of a new virus, it is our at-
tempt to control the error caused
by our immune system perceiving
a familiar virus differently. Quite
often a cold virus can live symbi-
otically within us, and we experi-
ence a cold only when for some
reason or other the virus
multiplies, and our old brain now
perceives this multiplication as an
error. Sometimes this doesn't
even have to happen. For un-
known reasons we suddenly
overwhelmed most of those who
were exposed to it. Those whose
immune systems could not reor-
ganize to cope with this lethal in-
vader died quickly. For diseases
like these we have learned to alert
our immune system to some of
the more virulent invaders like
tetanus and polio through immu-
nization. Here the immune sys-
tem is taught to redirect
specifically to resist an invader
through previously exposing it to
a small, nonvirulent, controlled
sample of that invader. As long as
the inoculation is taken for the in-
vader the system works. Then
when the real invader comes
along, the alerted immune system
disposes of it quickly through
redirection, and we do not get
sick.

Cancer is similar to an infection
except that the "outside" agent is
one of our own cells that for some
or other our immune systems
were unable to immobilize or de-
stroy these "foreign" cells. They
have multiplied until they are
present in sufficient numbers so
we or our doctor detect them. In
fact many scientists believe that
we are besieged by so many car-
cinogenic agents that probably all
of us have cancer cells within our
body most of the time, but our
healthy, active immune system
continually eliminates these cells
and protects us from their multi-
plying to the extent that we have
cancer. These researchers ad-
vance a theory called immuno-
surveillance, claiming that our
immune system continually pa-
trols the body, searching for for-
eign agents or invaders, and over-
comes them before they can be-
come too numerous. Whether this
occurs or not-and many don't
believe this is how it works-most
system deals only with the sur-
face of the cell, it cannot detect
that the interior of the cell has an
altered genetic structure. If the
surface seems to be normal, the
immune system, sensing no error,
is not activated. That cancer cells
can masquerade like this is only
one of the many complexities still
to be solved in cancer research. It
is our thinking that in most can-
cers we are dealing with either an
active but ineffective immune sys-
tem or an inactive immune sys-
tem, maybe at different times
both.

If people who get cancer have an
immune system that, in one way
or other, does not seem to be as
effective as it might be the ques-
tion must be raised: what causes
it to be ineffective? One answer,
which closely follows some psy-
chological research on cancer car-
ried on by Lawrence Le Shan, is
that many people who develop
cancer have suffered an over-
whelming human loss in the six
months prior to their cancer's be-
ing diagnosed. Someone who is
near and dear, someone terribly
important has either died, moved
away, or drastically rejected the
cancer patient, causing in BCP
terms a huge perceptual error. It
seems as if the person then suf-
fers some reduction in his actual
will to live, or in BCP terms, he re-
duces his new-brain reference
level for life. He begins to look at
life as hopeless. While he may go
through the motions, his old brain
senses that the new brain makes
almost no demands at all. He is al-
most the opposite of the type-A
person in that he resets his home-
ostatic reference levels too low.

For the old brain to function well,
it may need ongoing and varying
demands upon it by the new
much less reorganize to fight his
cancer. And most important of all
he is unaware of the severely low-
ered homeostasis; what goes on in
his old brain, up or down, is al-
most totally unconscious to him.

Recent research shows that men
in their sixties whose wives were
suffering from advanced cancer
showed a markedly depressed
functioning of their lymphocyte
cells. Since these cells are an im-
portant part of their immune sys-
tems the researchers concluded
that the sickness and death of
their spouse had caused them to
become increasingly susceptible
to immune-related disease. Here
is a direct relationship, between a
large, almost uncontrollable per-
ceptual error and reduction in
physiologic capacity to deal with
many diseases. It tends to support
what Dr. Le Shan observed in his
psychological work with cancer.

In certain cases this may be the
answer to psychological death,
that is, dying of no apparent phys-
iologic cause. Here the drastic
lowering of the old-brain refer-
ence levels may reduce homeosta-
sis to such a low level that life is
no longer possible. Even if this re-
duction is not in itself fatal, as it
rarely is, any outside invader be-
comes potentially lethal. Infec-
tions are often overwhelming un-
der these circumstances, and as
we have just suggested, cancer, an
"inside" invader, may grow un-
checked.

It is also important to understand
that, for many of these patients,
learning they have cancer can be
the last straw. They may have giv-
en up, but they didn't want cancer.

No one does. At the news that they
now have the disease they further
give up, compounding a vicious
cycle
that
augments the
more effectively to help him or
her get better.

One of the difficulties that con-
front both doctor and patient is
that in the beginning of any acute
illness, even though the illness
may later become chronic, almost
everyone who is sick temporarily
will reduce their aspirations. Few
people are able to continue to
consider themselves as unsuccess-
ful or unfulfilled when they are
critically ill. Temporarily almost
all of us revert to the basic refer-
ence level for staying alive, and if
we are able to perceive we are re-
ceiving good medical care, it will
certainly help us to reduce our
new-brain error and to allow our
old brain to function more nor-
mally for the time being. This is
why so many people do so well af-
ter a sudden, unexpected heart at-
tack.

Perceiving oneself as acutely ill
upsetting the old brain and driv-
ing the disease process. Typically,
this kind of patient may go to doc-
tor after doctor and become an
excellent patient. She willingly be-
comes involved in major medical
procedures, sometimes as heroic
as coronary transplants and, in
doing so, gets puzzling sympto-
matic relief from these now-com-
mon operations that seems to be
far above the actual increase in
coronary circulation. There is no
doubt that they have value, but
possibly some of their value lies
in how the patient receives this
drastic treatment. After surgery,
even when she has recovered and
looks at her scars, she is more eas-
ily able to see herself as someone
who has received heroic care.

This reduces her new brain error,
and if she also reduces her aspira-
tions the error will be further re-
duced. Homeostasis is then more
sicknesses. This is one of the ten-
ets of what is now called wholistic
or integral medicine, and proba-
bly it was always a part of good
medical care. In Chapter 14 this
will be discussed in some detail.

Here I only wish to point out what
should now be obvious: that to be
healthy we need to redirect suc-
cessfully. We should not be led to
believe that our health is unrelat-
ed to the way that we fulfill our
needs.

To me it is fascinating and
"reassuring" that psychosomatic
disease is neither necessarily nor
only a human problem. A recent
research carried out on rabbits in
the attempt to establish the much
discussed relationship between
high-cholesterol diets and arterial
clotting and scarring took an un-
expected turn.' Rabbits who were
fed diets high in cholesterol did
develop
arterial
lesions,
petting, not the particular petting
technician, that seemed to be nec-
essary. To me the message is clear,
be you rabbit or human: eat sensi-
bly and get petted daily if you
wish to avoid heart trouble.

L. R. Derogatis, Journal of the American Medical
Association (5 October 1979).

*
L. L. Le Shan, "An Emotional Life-History Pat-
tern Associated with Neophastic Disease," Annals
of the New York Academy of Sciences 125 (1966),
pp. 780-93.

*
"Stressing the Immune System," Science News,
5/24/80, vol. 117, no. 21, p. 335.

Fred Cornhill, Brain Mind Bulletin 5, no. 6, (4
January 1980).

12
Negative Addiction and the
BCP Effects of Drugs
One night about ten years ago I
found myself in a hotel room in
Tokyo deathly frightened because
each time I breathed a strong
pain shot through the middle of
my chest. I had suffered an upset
stomach the night before and felt
a little below par all day, but I was
totally unprepared for the chest
pain that started after dinner and
got steadily worse. By 1:00 A.M. I
was beside myself, convinced I
was in the midst of a severe heart
attack and sure I was going to
check out 5,000 miles from home.

Finally, when I could stand the
pain no longer, I got over my re-
luctance to call a foreign doctor,
and the hotel provided a physi-
cian for me almost immediately.

wondering to myself why it was
all reds and oranges and occa-
sional yellows, the warm colors of
the spectrum. But since it never
changed, I just accepted what it
was. I would dive into valley after
valley and then swoop over the
mountains that separated the val-
leys, and as I swooped over them
I went right through erupting
volcanoes, soaring through the
clouds and the smoke, all of
which again were reds and or-
anges, brilliantly colored and
filled with fire. Each valley was
different. Each was a new, excit-
ing visual experience, and this too
went on for hours. I must have
circled Jupiter completely two or
three times.

Then it slowly wore off. The vi-
sions drained away; I was no
longer circling Jupiter, I was back
to the reality of my hotel room. It
was, however, a beautiful, quiet
electrode, most rats will press the
lever repeatedly. The rat will stop
eating, drinking, lose interest in
sexual activity, and seem to be in-
terested only in pleasuring his
brain with the current. Since he is
no longer concerned with any-
thing except this activity he dies,
probably with a feral smile on his
face.

This indicates that in rats, and
now it is also known that human
beings have a similar place, there
is within the brain at least one, if
not more than one, pleasure
place. Obviously all creatures
with advanced nervous systems
have a capacity for ecstasy, and
stimulating this place in the brain
seems to tap that capacity. Contin-
uous stimulation causes it to at-
tenuate; this is true of all nervous
systems, so the rat stimulates it-
self intermittently choosing the
timing to get the maximum effect.

enough to find it?" Most human
addicts also see to it that they con-
tinue eating, drinking, and sleep-
ing at least enough to stay alive,
recognizing that it does require
minimal health to experience and
prolong the pleasure. Plenty of
addicts, however, have a life of
such misery and they pursue
their addiction so diligently that,
like the rat, they die. Further,
since we all have a need to be-
long, few addicts can totally deny
community values. At one time or
another, usually when drugs are
hard to come by, most would
agree that addiction has its flaws.

At this time some even enter
treatment, but most don't, be-
cause they don't want to give up
the drug. It feels too good.

Heroin Addiction
The most addicting of all drugs
are opium and its derivatives
morphine, heroin, dilaudid,
care! Most of us don't want to give
up controlling for these specific
needs, because we enjoy knowing
that usually we are able to control
successfully for them. We enjoy
doing what we do; our needs are
too important to us to give them
up for chemical pleasure. Even
though I enjoyed my one drug trip
I'm not about to give up all else
that I enjoy in the hope or even in
the knowledge of taking that trip
again. I want the activity, I want
the sense of human involvement,
even though at times the pure
physical pleasure of drug use may
be more intense than the varied
activity that I use to fulfill my
needs. Heroin addiction is analo-
gous to an oil company drilling
for oil but, instead of striking oil,
finding gold. Would the oil com-
pany continue to try to find, re-
fine, ship, and sell oil under these
circumstances? Would they pay
powerful neurotransmitter upsets
the homeostasis of the old brain.

Initially we may vomit and later
become chronically constipated
as our bowels become sluggish.

Urinary difficulties arise as blad-
der muscles relax and sphincters
tighten; breathing slows because
the drug inhibits our respiratory
center. For most addicts these ef-
fects are not serious enough to
stop the drug, and they adjust to
these difficulties because they
don't care that much about what
happens to their body anyway.

But for nonaddicts who care
about their bodies these effects
would be alarming and would
cause us to question the value of
this drug even if we had periods
of euphoria. Therefore, even if the
drug were widely available, its
use would not sweep the country,
although I'm sure more people
would use it than now.

Second, it is a fact that alcohol re-
duces the precision of all behav-
ior, physical and mental, yet un-
der its influence we deny this loss.

For example, we stagger when we
walk, but we don't realize our gait
is affected. And we realize neither
that our speech is slurred nor that
we make mental errors that
would not occur if we were sober.

From this evidence, following BCP,
it seems that alcohol addiction can
be almost completely explained by
one simple but profound effect
which occurs at all of our open
comparing stations, that is, it re-
duces our ability to sense a percep-
tual error. It is as if it acts like
novocain on the error in an open
comparing station; for all practi-
cal purposes it knocks the com-
paring station out of the system.

Our speech is slurred and we
can't walk a straight line, but
without the ability to compare we
family might have attempted to
deal with that conflict by drink-
ing. Caught between conflicting
needs, she is in constant pain, her
error is huge no matter what she
does, and even if she does nothing
it continues. When she drinks she
feels better because the alcohol
removes the pain of the error. The
conflict remains, but she doesn't
hurt nearly as much. It becomes
increasingly hard to predict what
her behavior will be; she will act
upon the impulse of the moment
and do one thing or another and
for a short time feel much better
as she does so. Usually she will do
something that she could not do
when sober (it would cause too
much error) like abruptly leaving
her family and moving in with
her lover. But to stay with him she
has to continue to drink. She has
not resolved her conflict, she has
just changed her behavior;
toes may be stepped on as they
struggle to get it. This conflict ex-
ists within all of us to some ex-
tent, but it seems to be unusually
prevalent in alcoholics. Or if it is
not more prevalent, what is typi-
cal is their inability to negotiate a
reasonable path between these
two always-conflicting needs.

Also, we live in a society that
seems to encourage personal
pleasure and places little sanction
on deviating from the belonging
needs of the culture. But even
with all this emphasis on personal
fulfillment, cultural ties are still
strong; we do not sacrifice them
easily, so when sober we remain
in conflict. When drunk, however,
the story is completely different.

Not to belong doesn't hurt any-
more, and without the restraint
that the need to belong ordinarily
places on our behavior we do
what we want and the hell with
counselor, but it is the only ap-
proach which will work. AA, for
example, makes the new member
stand up, say he is an alcoholic,
and repeat the miserable, stupid
things he did while drunk. AA
may not know BCP, but they do
know alcoholics, they have been
there. And obviously, all alcohol
rehab programs have to be alco-
hol free; it is not possible to give it
up while using it.

The pleasure associated with
drinking is probably the natural,
pure pleasure we feel when we
quickly, although usually briefly,
remove perceptual errors that
have been present a long time.

The temporary alcoholic resolu-
tion of a long-term conflict must
be ecstatic, and this euphoria is
probably induced through the se-
cretion of our own natural pleas-
ure chemicals, our endorphins
and enkephalins. Because we
those we don't want to be with,
they may reject us because we
drink. In many instances alcohol-
ics' spouses are very tolerant of
alcohol, because they fear that if
their spouses stop drinking they
may lose them. Eventually, one
way or another, if the drinking
becomes continuous no one will
accept an alcoholic. As this rejec-
tion is painful they drink more,
experience less error, and the cy-
cle becomes tragic. As the drink-
ers lose those they need the only
behavior that gives them any
semblance of life without error is
to drink. At this point, drunk but
unconflicted, they are controlling
almost exclusively for alcohol.

Like heroin, the drug has become
almost their sole reference level,
that is what they want, and drink-
ing is their most successful per-
ception. The move to this position
takes a while, but, when there
that work in a similar manner,
but only one, Valium, is used
widely enough to warrant men-
tioning. Latest research indicates
that Valium may possibly simu-
late a natural brain chemical in
the neurotransmitter category, in
this case some sort of anti-anxiety
agent.* Since our emotions are
complex there is every reason to
believe that natural "drugs" are
associated with how we perceive
many feeling behaviors. When
you use Valium you don't reduce
the error, but you reduce the anx-
ietying that is associated with the
error and this makes it an addict-
ing drug. It is probably not as ad-
dicting as heroin, but it is well
recognized that it does reduce
pain and in doing so induces
enough pleasure so that people
prefer to use it rather than getting
help or helping themselves to
solve their problem. Like alcohol
the physical side effects both of
using Valium and of trying to
withdraw from it can become
disabling, a situation well de-
scribed in I'm Dancing As Fast As I
Can by Barbara Gordon.*
While all addicting drugs furnish
chemical pleasure they also cause
us to suffer painful withdrawal
symptoms if the drug is stopped.

There are two kinds of withdraw-
al, psychological and physical,
and most withdrawal is a combi-
nation of both. The psychological
is easy to explain. By the time we
are addicted the drug dominates
our personal, in-the-head world;
it is mainly what we control for.

Take it away and there is the pure
pain of a sudden error, which is
soon augmented by a painful feel-
ing behavior initiated by the ac-
companying large-error signal.

During withdrawal addicts try al-
most any form of painful feeling
accept the drug. If the old brain
cannot accept the drug, then no
matter what the drug does it will
not become addictive; strychnine,
which some people use for sexual
pleasure, is probably an example
of a pleasure drug that is not ad-
dictive. Too much and it is fatal,
for the old brain cannot reorgan-
ize for strychnine. Once the drug
is accepted by the old brain and
becomes part of the brain physiol-
ogy, then if it is withdrawn there
is again an old-brain error. To re-
duce it we must reorganize with
sickness as our body readjusts to
life without the drug. For exam-
ple, before one gets addicted to
heroin vomiting is frequent as the
old brain rejects the drug. Then
the old brain reorganizes and re-
sets the reference levels of our
vomiting center to accommodate
heroin. Then when the heroin is
withdrawn we may vomit again
especially. But, like running your
car past the red line on the Ta-
chometer, if you use these drugs
too long you will push your be-
havioral system into reorganiza-
tion, which in most cases means
psychosis or crazy acting out.

Once the user becomes psychotic
then the capacity to continue the
drug ceases; the person is too cra-
zy to get it and no one will give it
to him. PCP, another drug which is
now widely used because it pro-
vides a quick high, also often pro-
duces reorganization and psycho-
sis.

Therefore these drugs, which
have, according to those who use
them, extremely pleasurable ef-
fects, are self-limited in use be-
cause they tend to drive the be-
havioral system to reorganize. Un-
til they do, however, the taker
may use them almost nonstop in
an effort to achieve and maintain
and to improve their behavior. I
believe that the name hyperactive
is a misnomer, that a better de-
scription of these children would
be Ziypo-behaviored. They lack
the necessary behaviors to con-
trol their perceptions at a level
where they can even minimally
fulfill their needs. Their pressing,
demanding behavior is an infan-
tile cry for attention; they have no
confidence in their ability to do
much more than breathe. What
we see is the limited behaviors of
a long-drawn-out, sophisticated
tantrum more appropriate to a
year-old than to a school-age
child. The stimulant works as it
should work; it gives them the
sensation of power and confi-
dence that is common to the way
we all perceive these drugs. The
slowdown or calming of the be-
havior is a result of the percep-
tion that their error is reduced.

are the way many people reorgan-
ize in an attempt to deal with the
huge errors that lead to psychosis.

Too many psychiatrists believe
that we must tranquilize away the
delusions and hallucinations no
matter how much drug we have
to use. But getting rid of the delu-
sions and hallucinations only
stops reorganization; it does not
provide the behaviors needed to
resolve the conflict that started
the process. Slowing down reor-
ganization so that we may reach
the patient makes sense, but to get
him functional we must teach bet-
ter behaviors, a subject we'll talk
about in Chapter 15.

If we paralyze the whole system
and turn the patients into nonde-
luded, nonhallucinated, nonbehaving
unfortunates we have drugged them to
where they cannot learn the new behaviors
they need because they cannot
about intensity and sensation.

This may be partly artificial, be-
cause marijuana is mostly
smoked under relaxed, pleasant,
low-error conditions. But even on
noisy, boring assembly lines,
where it is used a great deal, it
seems to make the senseless ca-
cophony more pleasing and the
monotonous work less onerous.

In doing this it may also reduce
perceptual error through releas-
ing some natural pleasure chemi-
cals, because the lower the order
at which we perceive the world
the less error we experience. Ma-
rijuana is not a high-pleasure
drug like alcohol or heroin, but it
makes things a little better
through reducing boredom by
helping to focus on low-order sen-
sations rather than the high-order
perceptions which like boredom
may cause us errors. It is also a
social drug to the extent that it
we immediately begin to suffer
huge perceptual errors, errors so
large that we start to reorganize
because our redirection system is
not able to handle this marked al-
teration and jumbling of the way
we perceive the world. Therefore
by drastically altering our percep-
tion, the length and variety of the
"crazy" experience can be as
much our attempt to try to rees-
tablish control as the perception-
altering effect of the drug itself.

When the drug wears off we usu-
ally regain control, but some-
times, especially for people who
have large errors before they took
the drug, the additional drug er-
ror triggers a reorganization that
does not stop when the drug
wears off. It is like the straw that
broke the camel's back, and for
this reason LSD should not be tak-
en except in controlled, low-error
situations with friends around
These people need group support
or programs like Overeaters'
Anonymous or Weight-watchers
to help reduce the loneliness that
causes many of them to eat. It's a
difficult problem and one which
was of no concern until the com-
ing of agriculture made food so
readily available. Food is, of
course, the perfect old-brain drug
because it is accepted by our old
brain completely-it causes no
physiologic error at all. The old
brain has no way of knowing that
the new brain is using food as a
drug, and it redirects to the physi-
ologic demands of an obese body
remarkably well. Therefore, while
there may be psychologic with-
drawal there is never any physio-
logic withdrawal. From the stand-
point of the old brain excess food
is a good hedge against the hard
times we all experienced before
agriculture, and it busily directs
is very short-lived. To get that
thrill over and over again and to
get more of a thrill with a bigger
wager or a greater risk, usually
both, is what makes gamblers into
real addicts. Unlike with alcohol
or heroin, there is also the possi-
bility that someone will become a
successful gambler, which means
to win enough so that the game
can continue indefinitely. Gam-
blers don't like to lose, they like to
play, but because the odds are
usually against them, if they play
too long most lose. Many
businessmen, however, gamble
and do so quite successfully. They
become so involved in the game
called work that they become ad-
dicted to their job. When this hap-
pens, and the rest of their life be-
comes insignificant, they become
what are commonly called
workaholics. Mundane jobs, how-
ever, do not produce this kind of
Careful questioning, however,
brought out the fact that he had
spent the night before in Las Ve-
gas playing slot machines. What
happened is that he pulled the
handle hard, long, and with such
concentration that he paid no at-
tention to painful messages from
his shoulder. In BCP terms he was
not controlling for shoulder pain,
he was controlling for a jackpot.

Until we questioned him he had
no conception that he had redi-
rected so excessively the night be-
fore that he had injured the
nerves that operate his shoulder.

With a little rest he quickly recov-
ered, but his paralyzed arm still
stands in my mind as a graphic
example of how much we control
for our perception, how little for
our behavior.

*
Benzodiazepine drugs; see Science News vol. 16,
no. 19, p. 325.

I'm Dancing as Fast as I Can (New York: Harper
& Row, 1979).

13
Using BCP Psychology in Our
Personal Life

Not long ago, when I was in a res-
taurant, a family was eating near-
by, and its youngest member, a
boy about a year old, was fussing.
The parents were trying to get
him to keep quiet. They obviously
didn't want a disturbance, yet the
more they tried to get him to stop,
the more noisy and upset he be-
came. They started to yell, and fi-
nally, in an irrational effort to qui-
et him, the father slapped him ra-
ther hard. At this point the baby
went berserk. He screamed and
carried on so that the father had
to pick him up and take him out-
side.

It seemed to me, from my com-
fortable vantage point of an
of an observer, that the parents should have
known that what they were doing was making the
situation worse not better. Certainly the final slap
had no chance to accomplish its purpose. But why
didn't the parents see what I saw?
Probably they did vaguely understand that what
they were doing wasn't working, but, driven by a
large error, they used the angry S-R redirection
punish the child and he'll keep quiet. Only when
this became obviously ineffective did they change.
Had they known BCP psychology well enough to
use it, they would have tried to figure out a better
behavior as soon as their error started to escalate.
They would have known that as they had many
more behaviors than a year-old child, they had a
much better chance to change than he did.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage people
to use BCP psychology in everyday life, in their
dealings with husbands, wives, lovers, children
mothers, fathers, bosses, and friends. It is our be-
lief that the more we do this the more successfully
we will fulfill our needs.
Our example illustrates a sound BCP principle,
which is always to make a thoughtful and forceful
effort not to increase your own error or the error of
people you deal with unless you have reason to be-
lieve that you or they have adequate behaviors to
cope with that increasing error. If there is an axiom
in BCP, this is it. In the example, driven by their
own errors, the mother and father increased the
child's error until his primitive redirection system
had no behavior except screaming to cope with
this increase. When the screaming worked he was picked up, removed from the restaurant, and probably comforted. But because an angry behavior works doesn't make it good. In fact, the more it works the more the child will use it and fail to
learn more complicated behaviors that are socially
acceptable. If the parents had used the axiom, and
in the very beginning hadn't increased the baby's
error, they would have fared better and maybe
taught him a new and more useful behavior
While children tend to have limited behaviors to
cope with errors, even an adult who experiences
an increasing error is unlikely to deal with the situation well. Therefore, the first corollary to the axiom is that we don't learn well in a high-error situation. The parents probably didn't in this instance, and it was obvious that the child learned nothing of any value.


Therefore, as soon as we
detect an increase in error in
someone we are dealing with, an
increase which we should sense
when others become tense, show
discomfort, or shift to an inade-
quate behavior, we must alter
what we do and attempt to reduce
the error. In most situations, we
easily detect this increase, but OC-
casionally, as in the case of Marie
Antoinette, we lack that sensitivi-
ty. This usually happens when we
fail to realize that our world is not
the real world. Therefore if we
wish to use BCP in our lives, we
must constantly remind ourselves
of the fact that our world is not
the real world, that we always live
in two worlds and so does every-
one else. The fussing baby was not
living in the parents' world, and
even if he had known what their
world was, the more they yelled
at him, the less inclination he
understand that its best use is to
take a firm attitude toward nego-
tiation and compromise, rather
than to force your will on others.

For example, ask firmly, "What
are my chances of getting the car
at 5:00 P.M.?" Tell the mechanic
it's very important that you have
it but you understand he is busy.

Compliment him on anything
good he has done for you in the
past. Say, "I'll call at 2:00 P.M. to
see where I stand." If it is ready at
five thank him and compliment
him again. This approach initially
will slightly increase his error,
but at the same time leads him to-
ward a good behavior to reduce it
by fixing the car on time. If he
does he'll feel good and then even
better because of your thanks. In
all negotiations the process is deli-
cate. Try to keep the ups and
downs of the other party's error
in mind, and be aware of the danger
of opening it too wide. Remember, it's worthless to
be assertive in a world where no one will compro-
mise, and the larger the other party's error the less
compromise there will be.

During the past two years, in which I have almost
completely incorporated BCP into my life, it has
seemed that I am surrounded by suffering caused by people increasing their own errors and the errors of those around them through using stimulus-response psychology. I think of two instances that I recently heard about. In one case a young couple
had moved back into her parents' home and expected the elderly parents to take
care of their small, active three-year-old boy while they worked.
When they lived apart, they had always been on
good terms, but after only a few weeks in the par-
ents' home. the couples were barely speaking. The
error caused by this unexpected move and by tak-
ing care of the child was so great that the grand-
parents were distraught. They didn't have the be-
haviors to cope with this situation. Because in their
world they think they should be good grandparents
and accept this burden, the real world is now more
than they can handle. The young couple is upset
because they feel parents should not only be able,
but eager, to accept them and their child. If either
or both couples understood BCP they would quick-
ly realize that there is a real world which is much
different from their world and because of this dif-
ference everybody is in an increasing error situa-
tion. The young couple would also see that the
grandparents do not have the behaviors to cope
with the grandchild, and they would make another
arrangement, or the grandparents would tell them
they don't have the behaviors to handle this bur-
den at this time in their lives. Knowing BCP does
not tell people what to do, but it does make appar-
ent that the increasing error calls for a change.
Look for a better behavior to reduce the upset. The
wo couples are trying to use the inadequate stimu-
lus-response behavior of barely speaking to each
other, a far cry from the negotiation and compro-
mise that BCP would call for in this situation.

Not knowing how people function has locked them all
nto this deteriorating situation; the error is in-
creasing and if angering builds there could be an
explosion. More likely all parties will control their
angering-not speaking is at least helpful in doing
his but if the error continues too long one or
both of the grandparents will likely reorganize
with sickness. The boy will also suffer because in
his tense, high-error situation he will not learn be-
haviors he needs at this age.

The other example I heard about is a dispute
which may end in court, over one neighbor's dog
messing in front of their next-door neighbor's
house. It may be that, in the world of the dog own- ers, all people should love dogs, even messy dogs, but in this case the complainer does not have a dog
and does not live in that world. He is on the verge
of going to court to resolve the problem Court,
which is always a high-error situation, will cause
the errors in all parties to increase, and while the
problem may be legally settled, the neighbors will
probably no longer be on speaking terms. If the
dog owner understood BCP, he would quickly real-
ize that right or wrong in his world, the dog's mess-
ing has caused a huge error in the complaining
neighbor There is no reasonable way to reduce
this error except to obey the law and keep the dog
away from his house. Refusal to understand this
and do it, that jS really live BCP psychology, has led
to the present debacle. Ultimately the owner will
keep the dog away from the neighbor's house but
how much more easily this could have been ac-
complished had the owner understood that his dog
only lived in his world; she will never live in the
world of the next-door neighbor This conflict
caused by "let the dog mess" is very similar to
"let them eat cake."

If it is hard to learn better
behaviors in a high-error situa-
tion it is obvious that we learn
best when we have a small error
an error that drives our behavior-
al system gently. It takes time to
trial behaviors learn to run
through our control system and
speculate on their ability to re-
duce an error before we actually
use them. Under the pressure of a
large error, we must act. There is
no time for this deliberate, inter-
nal trial process. We don't learn
in a panic, we learn in calm, quiet
times of reflection when we take
a look at the whole situation and 
run alternatives through our 
mind to see if it seems they might
work. Therefore, another corollary
to the first axiom of BCP psychology
is don't increase the error
if you want yourself or someone
else to learn better behavior. 

When I first was asked into pub-
lic schools because children were
becoming more and more difficult
to discipline, my initial suggestion
was: if you want children to learn
and to follow rules, don't threaten
them with failure. Failure causes
huge, uncontrollable errors in
students, most of whom deal with
these errors by acting out, giving
up, or using drugs. Unfortunately,
too many schools still stick firmly
to stimulus-response psychology,
that is, that the stimulus of threats
or punishment will cause students
to respond with hard work
and sticking to the rules. When
this does not succeed, many edu-
cators increase the stimulus by
continuing to threaten and punish
until the students' error has in-
creased to where violence in the
schools is common. BCP psycholo-
gy would predict this result
through another corollary: in-
crease the total error in any organ-
ization, and that organization will
steadily deteriorate in function and
usually also in purpose. Look
differently?" Think about the per-
sonal world that each of us lives
in and how the people you ob-
serve act as if they live in the real
world, and as if, since it is the
"only world," everyone else lives
there also. See how many times a
day you hear the equivalent of
"let them eat cake." See people try
to teach in high-error situations
and observe the devastating ef-
fects of conflict on usually sensi-
ble people. Look at people getting
drunk to reduce their growing er-
rors or using addictive drugs to
make it seem as if their errors do
not exist.

William Powers says it takes
about two years of hard work to
change from seeing the world in
S-R terms to BCP, and in my expe-
rience his estimate was very
close. It has taken me two full
years to get to the point where, at
least, I now see almost everything
night; neither of us has to get up
too early Wednesday morning;
how about that?" If she has any
understanding of BCP psychology
at all, she will probably accept
that compromise and things will
work well. She would recognize
that you didn't have a behavior
that would allow you to give up
the game that night. To have
forced yourself into a behavior
which would have increased your
error wouldn't have worked. You
did, however, have plenty of be-
haviors to go to the movies on an-
other night, and you quickly
brought them into operation
when you suggested the compro-
mise. Therefore, a further corol-
lary to the first axiom is: if either
party recognizes that an error-re-
ducing behavior is not available,
work toward a compromise; it is
the only way.

Let's take this a step further and
Arguments will not work unless
they lead to a compromise. And
arguments tend to increase errors
and make compromise more diffi-
cult. Therefore, following the
don't-increase-the-error corol-
lary, you know you must negoti-
ate. One way to start that might
work is to explain to your wife ex-
actly what's going on in your
world, that is, you are in conflict
and to reduce the error of a con-
flict will require a little work on
both your parts. Here if she un-
derstands the serious BCP impli-
cations of a conflict, you have a
much better chance. You have no
simple behavior to reduce the er-
ror of a conflict as you had for the
rubbish. You also know if the con-
flict isn't resolved, if she contin-
ues to try to force you to choose
between folk dancing and foot-
ball, the error in your marriage
will increase to the point where
want to), then we would know
and also feel that our behavioral
system is being forced into action.

Any of the behaviors mentioned
in previous chapters, from anger-
ing to depressing to drinking, is
possible, and one or more will be
what we do. Becoming aware of
BCP teaches two very important
facts about this common situation
where there is no way to reduce
the error: (1) our behavior (or
feeling) is not happening to us; we
are choosing it. (2) whatever we
initially tend to do, think, or feel
we can probably choose another
behavior that would be more ef-
fective and more comfortable. In
other words, the third axiom of
BCP is: we are not locked into any
one behavior; all we are locked
into is that we must behave.

BCP teaches us that what we or-
dinarily call feelings, and there-
fore think happen to us, are in fact
little better." After you say this to
yourself then remember that as
miserable as you may feel, your
behavior always has three active
components-doing, thinking, and
feeling. Keeping these three com-
ponents in mind, even though the
depressing seems to predominate,
both from my personal experi-
ence and as a reality therapist, I
have found that it is easier to
force myself to do something dif-
ferent than to think or feel some-
thing different. For example, if
I've been sitting at home depress-
ing, as miserable as I may feel,
I can get off my chair, go outside,
and walk for an hour. I am capa-
ble of doing that; walking is in my
behavioral system and does not
increase my error, because I have
no conflict where walking is con-
cerned. But if I change any com-
ponent of my behavior I must af-
fect all of it. By that I mean we
your world to a world that is easi-
er to control. The way to accom-
plish this is to try to keep your in-
the-head world at as low an order
as possible, and to do this you
must try to perceive the outside
world also at as low an order as
you can and still fulfill your
needs. This means you have to
learn to rely more on yourself
and less on others. For example,
you are unhappy and frustrated
because your daughter smokes
marijuana and refuses to stop. In
your world marijuana is illegal,
immoral, and dangerous; your
child is incorrigible for defying
you and continuing to smoke it.

To you as a parent, marijuana,
which could be as low as a third-
order perception, is perceived at
the ninth order; it dominates a
whole value system that your
daughter is violating. Because in
your world it is a dangerous and
behavior that allows you to see
her for short periods at a lower
order, and see that she may func-
tion well during these times, then,
even though you know she is still
smoking marijuana, the drug may
be reduced from ninth order to
sixth order. It's a sixth-order drug
that many people, even effective
people, smoke once in a while,
but it will not cause her to "go to
hell." This will cause you to criti-
cize her less and yourself less, be-
cause criticism is almost always a
behavior that is an attempt to cor-
rect the error of an unhappy
eighth or ninth-order perception.

Sixth-order and lower percep-
tions do not provoke much criti-
cism from your redirection sys-
tem. And the effect is circular; less
criticism means less error, and
less error less criticism.

Another way in which you might
reduce your overall level of error
needs the new brain has come up
with the behavior of marriage, os-
tensibly a lifelong commitment
common to most human cultures.

Very recently in the Western
World sexual restraint has be-
come culturally less necessary for
almost everyone, and as this has
occurred the sexual need of the
old brain can be satisfied inde-
pendently of marriage. It is also
less necessary that it be coupled
with the new-brain needs of love
and belonging. Because of this,
people are having more difficulty
maintaining marriage and even
long-term sexual relationships
short of marriage. They continue
to marry or live together, perhaps
more frequently than ever, and
for a while sex is coupled satisfac-
torily to love and belonging. But if
during the relationship it does not
continue to be coupled they may
divorce or separate and look for
they not only have many interests
in common but also share need-
fulfilling behaviors linked to these
interests then they usually want
to commit themselves to mar-
riage. But if, later, things deterio-
rate there is nothing sacrosanct
anymore about a "lifelong" rela-
tionship. It is no tragedy when
people who are miserable with
each other because their internal
worlds are much different sepa-
rate. The tragedy is when people
try to force themselves to live to-
gether because of an external
commitment like marriage. Peo-
ple who understand BCP will not
depend on external commitments
like marriage or a simple shared
internal need like sex to keep
them together. They will under-
stand the tremendous importance
of sharing their internal worlds
and will work out ways to expand
common interests and behaviors.

And also very aware of the importance
of keeping errors low, they will not
criticize or attempt to control their
partner in areas they do not share.
They will understand that to work out
the inevitable conflicts that arise
from inti macy they must quickly be
ready to compromise and negotiate
because love and belonging cannot
survive conflict.

Finally, as we begin to use BCP in our lives we will recognize that there are
many times when we suffer an error, especially from a conflict, that some of
the behaviors we consider will do little to correct; they may even make it
worse. For example, we need a hated job desperately, but if we choose to de-
press we will lose it. In these times of chronic error, unrelieved even by
symptoms like depressing and angering, we tend to suffer pain, disability, or
sickness. As explained in Chapters 10 and 11, our disability is a behavior, our
illness is caused by our old brain reorganizing. Understanding BCP may help
us to choose a better behavior and even possibly help our own medical treat-
ment if we recognize that we are suffering a psychosomatic illness.
First of all, if we understand BCP we at least know we hurt, are disabled or
sick because we are suffering from a chronic error. We may not be aware of
what the error is, but if we examine our lives carefully, by ourselves or with
help, we will find that there is almost always a serious conflict that We can-
not resolve. We are not suffering disabling headaches or arthritis or bleeding
ucers because of an external agent; it is something in our own internal
world that is not satisfied. Facing this fact is hard for two reasons: (1) we don't want to change our internal world; it is even difficult
for us to make ourselves aware of
its existence. And (2) we have
been taught all our lives that pain
or sickness is our body's response
to the stimulus of some outside
agent or trauma; something has
attacked us and made us sick.

This second point is especially
hard to unlearn partly because
this S-R explanation of disability
and disease is reinforced continu-
ally by the popular media, but
mostly because we want to believe
it. Since the "fact" that sickness
comes from an outside agent is
standard teaching in medical
schools, doctors also help us to be-
lieve that healing also must occur
from the outside. Stimulus-re-
sponse dominates here. There-
fore, for most of us who don't un-
derstand BCP and for a lot of us
who don't understand BCP and for a lot of us who are trying to, it's easier to depend upon medical care to heal us than to take a look at our lives and see what the conflict is and how it can be dealt with better. As we said in Chapter 11, attempt-
ing to live by BCP places a burden on us that, when we are sick, seems almost
too much too assume. "It's unfair to live in a BCP world where because I need
my miserable job, I don't have the behaviors to be well. It's not my fault! The
doctor should cure me."
Unfortunately, if we want to use BCP in our lives we must assume this bur-
den. If your doctor practices medicine in a BCP way he should be able to help
you; many wholistic doctors are now doing this successfully. Still, with or
without their help BCP teaches you to assume more responsibility for your
internal world, and that is hard. But if you do assume this responsibility, you
must be careful not to fall into the trap of thinking that the illness is your
fault, that you should have done better. You must accept that all of your life,
any behavior you choose, good or bad, is your best choice at that particular
time. If you start searching for fault, you necessarily criticize yourself, in-
crease your error and become more sick or disabled. What you must learn to
say is I have an error, probably from a conflict, and I must figure out some-
thing better than what I am doing now." If the sickness is resolving the con-
flict, as it may-many a person gets out of a bad work situation after a heart
attack, or a back "injury"--it is not a good way.
At this seeming impasse, where we need behavior that we do not have,
there is still something that we can do and that most of us are not aware of.
Our brain would not have evolved this far without a way to tap the almost
unlimited, but erratic, strength of our reorganization system, a way we will
take up next and one that most of us can use.


14
Meditations

In my book Positive Addiction I
told the story of a young monk
who felt he was positively addict-
ed to chanting. Early in his life, in
fact in high school, he became ad-
dicted to alcohol and lived in an
almost continuous alcoholic haze
until age twenty-five. No stranger
to the DTs, he felt that he was go-
ing to kill himself with drink.

Then, as alcoholics rarely do, he
took a look at himself on a sober
day, said that there must be some-
thing better than this, and decid-
ed to chant. Each day for an hour
he chanted the psalms; in six
months he had stopped drinking,
and in a year he had totally lost
the desire to drink. In BCP terms
he had removed alcohol from his
personal world, something that
we don't necessarily receive help
from it, but if we tap it in this way
there is a good chance that we
will. When the reorganization sys-
tem acts through the process of
meditation it is like a powerful
healer who may or may not de-
cide to help us but will not hurt us
under any circumstance. It is the
regular access that makes the dif-
ference; the more we become in-
volved the more likely the help.

Meditation will also help us gain
more effective behaviors whether
we suffer from a huge chronic er-
ror or are strong and healthy. It
makes no distinction as to wheth-
er we need help or not, but if we
do, the help will be more appar-
ent and more dramatic.

In BCP terms, let us examine
what happened that caused the
young monk to stop drinking and
to turn his whole life around
when he began to chant. Let's
meditation behavior is perceived
as beneficial, the more powerful it
will be in tapping the reorganiza-
tion system. Therefore, running,
chanting, yoga, zen, or swimming
will be much more powerful med-
itations than taking vitamins,
knitting, listening to music, or
walking, all of which are effective
but not nearly as strong, because
they take so little effort.

What happens in BCP terms is
that the more the meditation
occupies our mind or predomi-
nates for that time in our inner
world, the more powerful it will
be. This is because the more it
does, the more we will control for
it alone and, in doing so, close
down all of our comparing sta-
tions except the meditation sta-
tion for this activity. Under these
conditions, that is, when we have
only one station open and in that
station we have little or no error, I
describe as altered consciousness,
because for this low-error time
we do not need our mind for its
usual activities. As this altered
state takes over we enter the
meditative or positive-addiction
state of mind. As it continues we
may reach a total positive-addic-
tion state of mind or, in zen
terms, satori. When this occurs
we have gained temporary but ra-
ther complete access to this pow-
erful system. We become aware
that something far different from
our usual mental state is going on
in our head. It is as if our brain is
kind of spinning along on its own,
or as one positively addicted run-
ner described it, "It is as if my
brain leaves my body and floats
along on its own having a won-
derful time. As it does it occasion-
ally looks down and says, 'Look at
that poor fool running his guts
out when I'm having such a
and returns to his ordinary life
his redirection system, stronger
because it has been augmented by
input from his reorganization sys-
tem, deals with error better than
before. Of course, the reorganiza-
tion system continues to idle
along when we are not meditating
and not suffering a large error,
but it does not augment the
redirection system at this time,
because the redirection system is
busy.

Reorganization becomes actively
available to us only in very high-
error or extremely low-error situ-
ations. But in high or really un-
controllable-error situations its
use is restricted to reducing the
particular error that activated it.

As soon as the error is reduced we
go back to redirection. If we can't
reduce the error and we reorgan-
ize continually we are psychotic.

Meditation, therefore, is the only
create an error, an error signal,
and drive our redirection system
enough so that it becomes busy
and meditation impossible. There-
fore, the key to any low-error
meditation activity is to do it in
such a way that we accept our-
selves. The activity per se is less
important than the fact that we
accept ourselves while we do it.

Each culture seems to discover
and rediscover continually a vast
series of meditations, all of which
serve the same purpose. When we
find a way, like running, that
works for us, even though this
takes some time and effort, the
feeling is so powerful and so
pleasant that we can become posi-
tively addicted to the activity. This
occurs because, when the reor-
ganization system becomes tem-
porarily dominant and we gain a
sense of control, a natural, addict-
ing pleasure chemical like
bio-feedback, a popular new form
of meditation, is an attempt to
concentrate on consciously con-
trolling physiology ordinarily well
controlled by our old brain. For
example, you might concentrate
on lowering your own high blood
pressure by thinking of a low fig-
ure like 120 as hard as you can.

The bio-feedback machine pro-
vides an ongoing readout of your
actual blood pressure, while you
try to concentrate so hard on 120
that you lower the blood pres-
sure. Since the new brain can set
abnormal reference levels in the
old brain, bio-feedback theory
would hold that by concentrating
the new brain on 120 it transmits
this information to the old brain,
which lowers the pressure. But
this implies a much more direct
informational process, new brain
to old brain, than seems reasona-
ble. It cannot be that specific; the
This explanation is substantiated
by an experiment reported by the
TM people, in which a group with
high blood pressure was taught
TM, and a comparable group bio-
feedback.* After several weeks
TM seemed to be more effective
in lowering the blood pressure.

We believe it was more effective
because it is easier to accept. Bio-
feedback has too much potential
for self-criticism built in; that is, if
you don't succeed in reducing
your blood pressure, you may
criticize yourself for failing and
not reach the state of meditation.

TM, an old established medita-
tion, has almost no possibility for
self-criticism built into it.

Another interesting bio-feedback
experiment used heart rate as the
feedback.+ People who were anx-
ious when they spoke in public
were told to concentrate on their
heart rate and try to slow it down.

When the readout showed them
that they had succeeded they re-
ported much less anxiety when
making a speech. But the fact that
this was a meditation and not
true bio-feedback was shown
when the experimenters gave the
anxious public speakers false
feedback. The readout told them
that their heart rate was slowing
when it wasn't. False or true they
still reported much less anxiety
when speaking in public. The
false information worked as effec-
tively as the true information;in
fact, both test groups were identi-
cal in anxiety reduction. Obvious-
ly, it wasn't the slowing of the
heart rate that reduced the anxie-
ty, it was the fact that they were
doing something they thought
would help. They were involved
in a meditation, the bio-feedback
was incidental. What this also
shows is that it's foolish to believe
or to advocate that one medita-
tion is better than another. What
is better is the one that works for
you. When they work, they all
work in the same way. To argue
that running is more effective
than yoga is to argue the merits of
your inner world over mine.

The same forces are operating
when you take medicine if you be-
lieve that the medicine is effective.

This placebo effect is real because
it is a meditation. As long as you
believe in the medicine, your
new-brain will suffer less error,
your old brain will then function
better, and with it functioning at
more normal levels any physical
symptom or even a disease of re-
organization will improve. This
was graphically illustrated in a
case reported by Carl Simonton in
a booklet published in 1976. One
of the cases, reported by an inves-
tigator named Klopfer, is of a
double strength. All he injected
was water, but the man again
showed rapid disease remission
until it was announced conclu-
sively in the news that both the
AMA and FDA had found
Krebiozin to be a worthless prep-
aration. He died a few days after
reading this announcement.

Here again, we see the powerful
effect of error reduction; he be-
lieved in the drug, his new-brain
reorganization system augmented
his redirection system, he became
more effective and more in con-
trol. When this happened his
physiologic reference levels re-
turned to normal, his old-brain
reorganization (which we believe
was hampering his immune sys-
tem) stopped, and his normal im-
mune system temporarily wiped
out the lymphosarcoma. It all
stemmed from the placebo or
meditation effect of believing in
downhill, and it looked as if he
would suffer the full brunt of this
ailment and be crippled and in
pain for the rest of his life. When
Cousins asked his doctor to give it
to him straight he was told that he
had one chance in five hundred of
recovering. Facing these odds, he
asked his doctor if he couldn't
take over his own medical treat-
ment, and to his surprise the doc-
tor agreed. He tried the hospital
for a while but found that the Chi-
nese-water-torture treatment, typ-
ical of any large hospital, where
there seemed to be little concern
for the patients' comfort or con-
venience, was more than he could
bear. With his doctor's coopera-
tion he left the hospital and
checked into the Plaza Hotel in
New York City, where he engaged
a deluxe room with superior ser-
vice. He hired an extremely com-
petent nurse to care for him and
several years after the initial at-
tack, except for some mild residu-
al stiffening, he was judged com-
pletely recovered. He had beat the
500-1 odds against him.

His story, which he has expanded
into a bestselling book,* has re-
ceived so much publicity that it is
almost common knowledge to
most medical practitioners. He
now lectures to medical students
and faculties all over the world,
telling over and over what he be-
lieves caused the "miracle." Cou-
sins attributes a great deal of his
recovery to vitamin C; my own in-
terpretation would be that this
fortunately nonharmful drug was
the placebo portion of several
powerful meditations that he
cleverly arranged for himself.

Without understanding BCP, Cou-
sins recognized that in the hospi-
tal he was being treated much dif-
ferently from how he would like
A doctor and his wife who recog-
nize the importance of meditation
are Carl Simonton and his social-
worker wife, Stephanie. They
have pioneered a sensible medita-
tion treatment for cancer that has
prolonged the life and reduced
the suffering of many people and
seems to have produced a total re-
mission in at least ten. His treat-
ment, simply stated, is to add a
visualizing meditation to the tra-
ditional cancer treatment of radi-
ation and chemotherapy. As a
young doctor he had noticed that
the mental attitude of the cancer
patient seemed to be the crucial
factor in determining the course
of the disease. People who did not
admit that they were doomed and
mentally fought the cancer lived
longer and with less suffering.

And where they believed in the ef-
ficacy of the treatment they re-
ceived they also seemed to do
of life and more comfort is where
they are, but they are working
hard against a disease which
strikes terror (high error) into
those who suffer it. While this ap-
proach is a long way from the fi-
nal cure for cancer it shows that
to combat even this destructive
disease we can enlist the power-
ful mechanism of the reorganiza-
tion system with some good ef-
fect.

We live in a complicated world of
chronic error, and while probably
it was always that way, it seems
harder and harder for most of us
to believe that we have the con-
trol we would like to have over
our own destiny. To get this belief
will never be easy, but we should
be aware that meditation allows
us to enlist our reorganization
system to help, and like Charley
Brown we need all the help we
can get. We would all benefit if we
had more ways to spend part of
each day without error. If we can
find a meditation that does this it
makes good sense to use it regu-
larly.

TM is a trademark for Transcendental Medita-
tion. This experiment was reported in a privately
circulated book of TM experiments by David Wal-
lace, Ph.D. who is the research director of the TM
organization. He can be contacted through the
Maharishi International University, Fairfield,
Iowa.

t Gatchel, Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psy-
chology 47:620-22.

*
Carl Simonton, Stress Psychological Factors and
Cancer (privately published, 1976).

Norman Cousins, Anatomy of an Illness (New
York: W. W. Norton & Co., 1979).

Simonton reported this in his paper entitled,
"Belief Systems and Management of the Emotion-
al Aspects of Malignancy," Journal of Transper-
sonal Psychology 7, no. 1 (1975).

15
Helping Others: The Use of
BCP with Reality Therapy

Recently, while I was lecturing on
BCP psychology in St. Louis, a
woman came up during a break
and said, "I'm a headacher." I
didn't know exactly how to re-
spond to this abrupt confession,
but trying to be helpful I said,
"Well, maybe now that you under-
stand that headaching is a behav-
ior you will be able to choose a
better behavior and get rid of
your headaches." She said that
she did understand that
headaching was a behavior and
that she had been thinking about
my explanation for the past hour.

It seemed obvious that she under-
stood my BCP explanation per-
fectly, but when I repeated my
suggestion she said with some
psychology, we would continually
try to help both husband and wife
to perceive the world at the
lowest order possible, and to use
this order when dealing with each
other. This is not to say that high
orders are always error-produc-
ing; they can be quite the oppo-
site. For example, the man could
have said to his wife, had the
soup been delicious but just a bit
too cool, "I just can't get over the
fact that you consistently make
such great soups. If this were just
a little warmer it would be per-
fect." Here he could raise the or-
der to confirm how good a cook
she is and lower the headache
risk to his wife. People who deal
with the world at very high or-
ders, that is, see everything in
terms of good or bad or right and
wrong are always going to cause
and experience more perceptual
error than necessary.

In therapy developed into a series
of eight steps, which, long before
I knew about BCP, had worked extremely
well to reduce error and, when
possible, resolve conflicts. As I
have just discussed, since BCP, I've
decided to add to these steps the
basic concepts of BCP, which I
teach to my clients using the
chart. I've believed for a long time
that along with a warm, personal
client-therapist relationship,
much of therapy is teaching, but
before BCP what I mostly tried to
teach was better behaviors. Now I
want to teach people how the con-
trol system works and use the
concepts of Reality Therapy not
only to teach better behaviors but
also to evaluate and improve
their perceptions and their inter-
nal world. Keeping this in mind,
let's now take a look at the help-
ing process that I use, Reality
Therapy.

Make Friends-Step One

The first step of Reality Therapy is Make friends,
and by that I mean that anyone who comes to see a
Reality Therapist should feel that she is in the pres-
ence of a warm, concerned person who is desper-
ately trying to help her in every way possible. Since
believe that there is a basic need for belonging
and that we almost always control for this need, it
is important that the therapy relationship do as
much as it can to satisfy this need in those who
come for help. It has been my experience that al-
most all the people who enter therapy believe that
right now they don't belong as much as they would
ike to. The therapist can't fulfill this need totally
no one can fulfill this need totally for another hu-
man being -but he can give the client the very ob-
vious perception that "while Im seeing this thera-
pist, I certainly do belong." Understanding BCP has
reinforced the importance of this step. Many peo
ple have said to me when Ive worked with them
"Why do I seem able to do things when I see you
that I couldn't do without seeing you?" They look at
me as some sort of magical person who has given
them a capacity they didn't believe they had. I had
never been comfortable with that statement, but
never knew exactly why. I recognized that when
people felt that they belonged they grew stronger
but now, understanding BCP, it's obvious that when
belonging reduces their total error they drive their
behavioral system much less frantically. When they
reduce their error signal they are able to come up
with behaviors that were not possible when the
system was being driven so hard. There's nothing
magical about the process, and I no longer feel un-
comfortable. When I believe they are ready we just
look at the chart and talk about the fact that even a
little increase in the sense of belonging reduces the
total error, and the total error signal. We talk about
the fact that the total error signal is the sum of all
the errors in the open comparing stations, but
when we reduce an important error like belonging,
a substantial reduction is made in the total error,
When this occurs, better behaviors immediately
become possible. We may have to work them out,
which we'll talk about shortly, but some are al-
ready there; they just weren't available because
the system was being driven too hard. Remember
that these steps are not a recipe to be used in cook-
book fashion; step one goes on throughout the
whole process.

Also, as therapy progresses and as a part of step
one, I now ask what the client wants. Ill get more
as time goes on, but I want to know as much as I
can about the client's internal world as soon as pos-
sible. I don't expect to learn much immediately,
and I certainly don't push, because I know that it is
painful to face what we want without the behav-
iors to get it, but I also feel that there is a great re-
duction of error in just telling an accepting thera-
pist what it is that you want. As soon as I judge
there is a certain comfort, a certain level of trust, a
certain sense that with me they do belong, and
when they have tried a few better behaviors that
we have worked out using steps two, three and
four, then more and more I try to get to the areas
that they don't want to face. Now I try to get
clients to stop defending against
what they want right now that
they are not getting. This certainly
was illustrated by the man who
said how difficult this is to face,
but because he had some good
new behaviors which gave him
more faith in his ability to control
things, he was ready to face it. It
was also illustrated by the
headaching woman who for all
practical purposes said, "I don't
want to face what I want right
now. I'd rather headache." As long
as she headaches, all she will face
that she wants is to get rid of the
headaches. So now when I do
therapy we will study the chart on
the wall and take a hard look at
the uncontrolled reference per-
ceptions that are coming from the
client's internal world.

What Are You Doing Now?-Step
Two

This leads us to the second step of Reality Therapy,
the question "What are you doing now?" Many
therapeutic approaches ask people how they feel
or try to find out a great deal about their past histo-
ry. Reality Therapy concentrates on present behav-
ior and mostly on the doing component of this be-
havior. By now we know that our behavior is com-
prised of doing, thinking, and feeling. but we con-
centrate on doing because it is the most tangible
and most easily changed component. People tend
to come for help complaining about the feeling
component of their behavior because they are
most aware of it. They say, "I feel depressed, I feel
anxious, tense, I'm fearful that I can't leave the
house, to cite a few common complaints The
thinking component is seen where they say, "I can't
stop crazy thoughts from running through my mind,
I can't study, I can't concentrate, my mind seems
blank." Paining, a specific feeling component,
is illustrated by the complaints of
headaches, backaches, or a con-
tinually upset stomach. The an-
gering, acting-out component is
shown when someone says "I feel
this overpowering anger seething
within me, and I'm fearful I'm go-
ing to hurt someone." All of these
are behaviors, all are unsatisfac-
tory, and in most cases they are
painful emotional behaviors cli-
ents want to overcome. But in or-
der to change these behaviors,
BCP points out that they need to
recognize that what they are com-
plaining about is not just a feel-
ing, it is a feeling behavior.

Ordinarily this is not what people
believe; they believe they are suf-
fering from an emotional state
like anxiety. To teach them that
understanding the whole process,
but even if it doesn't, as long as
the therapist understands, thera-
py can proceed. Therefore, we try
to teach the output concept that
long-term feelings are behaviors,
but if we can't get a client to un-
derstand this basic BCP concept
we can get her to accept that she
must choose the doing component
of her total behavior. We can
work from this much although, as
we said, as therapy proceeds we
will usually get clients to under-
stand the three component, doing,
thinking, feeling, explanation of
their behavior.

Is This Behavior Helping You? -
Step Three

In this step we ask the client to
evaluate all or any part of his be-
havior that he will admit to
choosing. We ask, "Is sitting all
day in the house working for
you?" Or, if he understands BCP,
client is choosing satisfactory, it
will always be the best he or she
can do at the time. That's how our
control system works. We never
choose to do anything that causes
us pain and discomfort;
we choose it because right now de-
pressing or headaching reduces
our error more effectively than
any other available behavior. But
in therapy we are a moment be-
yond right now; we are now a
tiny step further down the road.

The therapy relationship is a new
time; the knowledge that we
choose our behavior is new, and
at this time a better behavior is
possible.

A great deal of what goes on in
Reality Therapy is talking about
the possibility of a better behav-
ior. Here the therapist has to be
active, to offer behavioral choices,
to teach, to let the client know
that there are many behaviors
behavior, we also must use it to
evaluate what it is that we want
and begin to modify our inner
world if there is no reasonable be-
havior to satisfy what we want.

We may have to come to the con-
clusion that we must get love
from someone other than Susan.

We use the same steps two, three,
four to look at, evaluate, and per-
haps change our internal world to
make it more possible. To take an-
other example, the client has been
rejected over and over for the
promotion that he desperately
wants. He's been told by the boss
that he will not get the promotion
and that there is no sense apply-
ing for it again. The boss isn't ly-
ing; there's nothing the client can
do to get what he wants. Is he
doomed to suffer a huge percep-
tual error for the rest of his life?
The answer is it's up to him. Cer-
tainly in a therapy situation I
about behaviors this is not a sen-
sitive area. When the client be-
gins to do this, even a little, she
gets a marked reduction of error
and is usually able to behave
much better.

Get a Commitment - Step Five
The next step of Reality Therapy
is to get the client to make a com-
mitment to the therapist to try
some new behaviors. Or perhaps,
to try to perceive the world at a
lower order or to change her in-
ternal world. Here we are mostly
talking about behaviors and mak-
ing a commitment to a plan to be-
have better. What should be
worked out is a specific, under-
standable, and seemingly worka-
ble plan and then a commitment
to try it. From a BCP standpoint
what a request for a commitment
does is to ask the client to include
the therapist in her internal
world, in essence, to help her to
trying to teach a behavior that
will not only work now but will
work in the future. But you can't
teach people while they misbe-
have. They must be restrained.

For example, a small child spills
the milk at the dinner table, and
the parent goes berserk because
in the parent's world milk should
never be spilled. The parent's er-
ror causes the parent to scream,
"Why did you spill the milk?"
What the parent should do is to
teach a behavior so the milk will
be spilled less in the future. The
best thing to say here is not the
punitive, critical statement "why
did you spill the milk?," but go
back to step four and ask, "Okay,
what's your plan now?" The child
may be startled when you say that
because instead of punishing him,
which he may expect, what you're
doing is asking him to learn a
good behavior to handle the
then hangs tight. Once the client
develops the idea that you're not
going to give up, this solidifies his
feeling that here, at least, I belong.

In many people the belonging sta-
tion has a large, nobody-cares-
about me error that takes a long
time to reduce. Because you don't
give up, the client learns you care,
and finally with a reduced error
he learns to use more adequate
behaviors.

This doesn't mean that you never
give up no matter what the client
does. There are times when you
have to say, "If you want me to
continue to see you, then you
have to do something." What
you're essentially saying is, "If
you want to keep me as part of
your world, then you've got to do
some things on your own to fulfill
your needs or I won't be a part of
your world." This refusal to see
certain clients is based on your
psychotherapy. As these ideas be-
come better known more will be
learned, but even this much has
helped me to be a more effective
therapist. It has given me a map, a
way to go and a way to talk that
both I and the client can follow,
and it prevents therapy from get-
ting bogged down in the helpless-
ness of "I am not responsible for
what I do, and because of the
world I can't change." Here there
are three definite places to
change, and almost from the be-
ginning some progress can be
made in one or more of these
three places: our behavior, the
way we look at the world, and the
way we build our world.

For a much more complete discussion of Reality
Therapy, see Naomi Glasser, ed., What Are You
Doing?: Case Histories in Reality Therapy (New
York: Harper & Row, 1980).

A Final Note

With BCP psychology we believe
we can explain a great deal about
why we behave (error and error
signal) and how we behave (reor-
ganization and redirection). We
have proposed that we perceive
the world in as many as ten or-
ders to explain the process
through which we build the world
in our head. For example we can-
not explain why, given similar
conditions such as the same fami-
ly and driven by the same general
needs, we reorganize so different-
ly that even in identical twins,
reared together, one can be ho-
mosexual and the other hetero-
sexual.

Most human problems stem from
our inability to get along with
each other. Because we find it so
difficult to accept people with
worlds different from ours, it
seems to me that the next step in
BCP should be to attempt to find
out more about how our random
reorganization system works.

Maybe because it is random we
can never do much more than
postulate its existence, but it
seems to me it is worth exploring.

The mere fact that I have this re-
lentless, random, creative system
continually idling or churning in-
side fills me with wonder. Per-
haps if we continue to probe for
how it works it will reorganize
and in some way reveal itself. If it
does, it may also shed some light
on the ancient philosophical ques-
tion-which we have avoided in
this book because so far it has no
answer-who is it who builds my
inner world?

Acknowledgments

I wish to acknowledge the contri-
bution to my thinking made by W.
C. Ellerbroek, M.D., whose ideas
are expressed in the provocative
paper "Language, Thought and
Disease," published in the Co-Evo-
lution Quarterly, Spring 1978, Box
4281, Sausalito, CA.

I would also like to thank Sam
Buchholtz, whom I consider one
of the most outstanding scholars
in the behavioral sciences, for di-
recting me to Bill Powers's book.

About the Author
WILLIAM GLASSER, M.D.

WILLIAM GLASSER, M.D., is an interna-
tionally known psychiatrist living
in Los Angeles, originator with Dr.
G. L. Harrington of Reality Thera-
py. Dr. Glasser's books include Re-
ality Therapy: A New Approach to
Psychiatry, Positive Addiction,
Schools Without Failure, The Iden-
tity Society, and Mental Health or
Mental Illness? Dr. Glasser is the
founder of the Institute for Reality
Therapy and has worked closely
with the Educator Training Cen-
ter.

Visit www.AuthorTracker.com for
exclusive information on your fa-
vorite HarperCollins author.

By the same author
Schools without Failure
Reality Therapy
Positive Addiction
The Identity Society
Mental Health or Mental Ill-
ness?
Both-Win Management (with
Chester Karrass)
