If you guys can help me sort of at my head around the generate sub-challenge and sort
of the exciting things within this sub-challenge, what we're hoping to achieve, what you're
looking for.
Yeah, sure.
Absolutely.
I'll go quick and say like the hardest part about working with like these computational
models is generating laughter.
It's the hardest part of comedy too, right?
Generating laughter, like actually making people laugh is a hard part.
Laughter is just one expression that you want to make happen, to elicit, but it's not the
only one.
In our previous work, we worked with a dataset that was maybe 20 times smaller than the dataset
that we have here, maybe a little bit less, and it was the best that was available at
the time.
We're super excited at the quality, scale, size, diversity of the data that's here because
it doesn't just cover laughter, it covers a whole bunch of different styles, and then
on a bit more specific stuff or emotions, maybe I'll throw to Gautier you can share
some more details.
What's really interesting about generating laughter, and I think vocal burst in general,
is the fact that it has never been done before at this scale.
The previous project, I think it's from what I remember, the first project that tried to
do this, and what's really interesting about this is that as Alan mentioned, you don't
have to generate some semantics, so when you want to, you know, there is a lot of like
voice generation, you know, but that tries to generate voice, but it's a specific task
where you're asking, generate a voice that's going to read this text for me.
So you're asking something very specific, here we're asking something different, it's
like just generate a laughter, and I give you no condition, no constraints, just generates
me, generates laughter or generate horror.
And so this is, when you think about it, even for a human, this is hard, like if I'm asking
you to generate, like generate a honest, you know, like true laughter or generate what
is horror, you have to think about it, like what is horror for me?
What, okay, okay, how can I convey this emotion?
Like we are paying actors to do this, because this is hard.
And so this is why this task is amazing.
And like, you know, from just an AI perspective, but also from a human perspective, try to
understand what, you know, try to deconstruct how a machine can learn this, this like
generation, these emotions.
And I get into these ideas through the laughter project.
So I was like, Oh, laughter is amazing, because the task is so well defined.
And this is so hard to like generate the whole diversity of laughter.
And then I met Alan and I was like, Oh, it's not about laughter.
It's about vocal burst.
It's even more diverse than laughter.
Like this is about emotion.
This is what's interesting.
So yeah, I'm very excited with this challenge, because one of the main bottleneck and one
of the main thing that was preventing the community to like move forward for this task
was the access of data.
As Corey mentioned, you know, the big data challenges were always the thing that was
like kind of accelerating progress.
Like really, it was the necessary step, you know, like releasing this large amount of
data and tell people, okay, guys, you have to give your best and like try to solve this task.
And so we are at this point where we can, I mean, like you can provide the data and
that's awesome to the community.
And yeah, if you look at lots of tasks, like image recognition, translation, I had
other tasks in mind, but like lots of big or like movie suggestions, all the big challenges
in, let's say, artificial intelligence, like a huge bottleneck for the progress was the
release of the data, like the release of the data making this like publicly available.
And once like such like data sets has been like made publicly available, progress was
huge because the whole community, it's not about like one group, one people, or like
even one group, it's like what like the whole community that was working on it and like
try to improve the benchmarks.
So that's, that's really exciting.
Sounds very exciting.
