The gut reaction when you talk about AI generated content, the gut reaction is that it's less
than or it's lazy because it wasn't done manually and it required less effort, quote, unquote.
And so I'm curious, Richard, as someone whose goal over there is to enhance and not replace
what are some of the ways you guys envision AI becoming a tool for visual artists?
It already is in a lot of ways. I mean, AI has been around for longer than people realize helping
them in the creative process, but it's even more so these days. As you said, as we see the advent
of all these virtual worlds coming online and the whole, all that excitement about multiverse,
multiverse, all that, but what's really taking place is we're going to see this next generation
of the web where all these virtual worlds are connected. Well, they're going to need content
in those virtual worlds and they're going to need things and stuff. And as we all know, anybody
that's ever done 3D, it's not easy. It's hard. And that's why there's a pretty finite set of really
expert 3D artists in the world. And they're amazing at what they do, but it's not something
that you can just hand off to somebody else. So AI comes into play and allows you to do things
like you can use your phone and scan an area and it's a LiDAR scanner. And now you have a 3D
scene that can bring it in. I can do things like train the computer to know a bunch of photos.
That might be something I want. That's a car. Oh, that photo, I'm going to make a 3D car.
Just like that. So you're using AI as an arrow in the quiver and you're able to do things
and use it to tell your story or to create your image or things like that.
Musicians have been doing things like that, sampling sounds and such for quite a while.
I think it's more in line with that. It means to the end. It's not a replacement of the artist.
Can you use it to create art? Yes, you can use it to create backgrounds and things like that.
What are you going to do with that? Well, that's the part of the artist. That's
the part of the storyteller. That's the part of the director. So it's another tool.
