What's the thing, wouldn't it be great if we could do XYZ now?
What's the thing you're really excited about for the technology to catch up to?
I think the digital twin of Earth project that has been undertaken by the company, building
a supercomputer to accurately have a digital twin of the Earth and be able to use it to
not only understand climate change and things like that, but to almost have it and understand
it in a time machine sense.
So what happened to get us to this point, so turn back time, what would it be like if
we don't do anything with these emissions and stuff and be able to have that kind of
power on a global scale?
I think that's kind of to me the next big thing that's going to be just, and it's amazing
watching the team started to bring it together and all of that kind of stuff.
So yeah, I think that's, it's hard for the mind to comprehend.
Yeah, that's massive.
That's a huge deal.
I was thinking, like, you know, within the context of the entertainment industry and
those confines, but I mean, the global implications of something like that is pretty mind boggling,
wild.
Alan, what are some things that you're really excited about, man?
That's a tough act to follow.
What do you mean?
That opens up a lot.
I hadn't thought of that.
I was thinking more in the direction of unlocking the imaginative universe that, you know, unlocking
the ability of people to create 3D worlds that evoke emotion, that are immersive, that
maybe even personalized for specific people.
And so, you know, maybe for myself, I'm more into like the mild horror movies, that's
a logical one.
Some people are into the really intense ones.
But if the same movie could be kind of manipulated on that scale, just all automatically by an
AI and sort of calibrated for specific people's tastes, I think that would be really amazing.
And yeah, and then you asked about, you know, are these lists of credits going to get shorter?
And I hope they don't.
I hope that movies just get more ambitious, you know, that what they're doing just completely
would blow our mind today in 30 years and still requires that same number of people
but each person is, you know, doing a thousand times more work because of AI.
I think that would be an incredible, incredible thing to see.
