Where do we see all this tech that the AI is changing art in the art world the most?
Is it going to be the artists as a tool?
Is it going to be as a curator?
What do we think is going to be the most significant impact?
You know, I think I've always loved the idea from when I first was hearing about AI, whether
it was in science section or what of a little agent.
So I could program agents and maybe I don't even have to program the agents.
Agents would figure out what I needed.
And I guess maybe people stopped calling them that after the matrix, but I like this idea
like you've got your little advisor on your shoulder and maybe it helps you get on the
hunt and get this is kind of like this collecting idea.
It's fun.
It's addictive.
And I think people are in the hunt for data, they're on the hunt for the new, they're on
the hunt for something.
So here's something that could figure out just, I mean, I hope we can do a good job of this,
you know, at some point to have make sure that technology is a force for good in the
world and to and to again help bring you into the cultural conversation to give you 10 bits
about a piece of art that you have that you didn't know about that maybe there's a trend
that's upcoming and you get all the forefront of it because you have these agents helping
you out.
And I hope that you have eventually you hope you have this little swarm of agents doing
the same thing for you with your finances and do I really have to file my taxes?
Can my agent do my natural army?
We've talked about the agents before on the show.
Alan, Alan, what about you, sir?
What where do you see where do you where do you hope or or predict the biggest impact?
We'll see in this world with the with the AI and stuff that we've been talking about
specifically in the art world.
Yeah, I mean, I love what artsy is doing and the idea of democratizing democratizing what
an agent of art duration or appreciation or, you know, broker brokering art sales does
democratizing it using AI by making more powerful with the human in the loop and giving more
people access without replacing them.
I think that is a great theme for us.
I also would build on what I said last time with with Richard Karris and that was a slightly
different episode since it was on digital creation and CGI and so forth.
But the idea that some of these tools could be used to unlock abilities of artists or
the ability to take their imagination and make it into an art piece as a tool, I think
is really, really promising, more so much more so than I think AI actually taking the
place of an artist.
So, you know, the idea that you can sketch something in a person or an environment and
it can create that take that sketch and make it into a 3D model while preserving each aspect
of, you know, at every level of analysis, the form and and style of the art that enables
it to convey emotions and to convey incredible aesthetic experiences, but taking that making
it three dimensional, making it interactive, making it a character that speaks to you like
all these things that really unlock the abilities for artists, I think that's going to be really
extremely promising.
Yeah, amplifying as opposed to replacing.
Yeah, very cool.
