Let's get into the curation team because I'm always curious about the ways services
are and aren't incorporating AI into the workflow and they are actual human beings uniquely
equipped to help you find art within your price range and match your tastes and all
that sort of stuff.
It feels like a job that's ripe for like a recommendation engine or something and I'm
wondering about the balance or why the decision to keep the human element there or if there's
AI being employed, all that stuff, I'm really curious and love to hear you talk about.
Sure.
Well, I went back in time with the help of Sarah Hack who's one of our machine learning
engineers and she pointed me to GitHub repo that has been around for six years.
So we've been doing machine learning at Artsy for at least that long, if not longer in a
different place.
So you will find that how we sort things is based on a recommendation engine and it's
not that you have to be at a certain budget to really take in most advantage of our advisory
team and at the same time, we think that right now where AI and by AI we mean machine learning
and by machine learning, we need neural nets at a certain level of depth.
What they can do right now is amplify our own biases as humans and you can see this
on some of the poorer sides of AI and machine learning and neural nets where you train things
on just white skin and then people can't have their soap dispensed by an electronic sensor
and I think you're helping to fix that as well, which is wonderful.
So we're amplifying bias and so what we're biasing right now and what we're amplifying
are these editors and these curators and so we've got I think millions of pieces of art
and hundreds of thousands of artists and many, many, many users and I think if you calculate
the intersection of all of that, it would be like 12 trillion interactions and there's
no way that any human is going to make sense of that exactly, exactly.
So you talk about art being big data, it's actually big data and this is where we at
artsy just love as technologists to be able to come in, play with this data, you know,
one of the first things that we did is we made this thing called a Genome Project and
so this is one of the first things that we use to help us sort algorithmically what you
get to see in front of you.
Yeah, so we've been at it for a while and but at the same time, I think that you can
also get into the kind of uncanny valley with AI where it just it's almost there and it
almost is right and then but there's just something off about it and that's where if
we bring in this curatorial human element, then we kind of avoid that uncanny valley.
