When you talk about augmented reality, how do you think of it, Arjun, how do you define
it?
Is it just like that?
An overlay?
Or is it more of like a suite of services and things?
I'm very curious to your perspective on that, of what augmented reality is to you.
And there is some debate about the terms now only because technologies are maturing
so much that there's this cross boundaries between these different.
The way I really want to think about this is there's a term called XR, a cross reality
or extended reality, which really encompasses the boundaries of the different kinds of things
you can do.
So there's virtual reality, there's augmented reality, there's mixed reality.
And then that spectrum, if you think about it, is kind of under this umbrella in the
traditional definition of extended reality or XR or cross reality.
Information augmentation on the other hand is very different, right?
By definition, augmented reality needs a point in the real world to be tracked using a computer
vision algorithm.
And then somehow that registered point in the real world doesn't really move in space
and you're able to overlay information on it, which is your traditional definition of augmented
reality.
Now, that's very different from the kinds of augmentation that we're thinking about now,
which is can we use technology to augment human's thinking, right?
And that is providing timely information, almost on demand information to the people
that are needing that information.
And that's kind of how I imagine augmentation, especially from a technological standpoint.
It's, I am doing a task, I don't need to register a specific portion in my world in
which I need that information displayed.
I just contextually, and in that particular moment in time, require that information and
the technology is able to provide that information to me in order to make, help me make a better
decision than I already would have.
Love it.
So I'll definitely do you on other kind of like lines of thinking around this.
And I want to be sensitive to not, you know, redefine terms that have already been refined
over, you know, 30, 40 years, augmented reality is still augmented reality.
And it's not casting rules out here.
You can read it.
Thank you.
