A moment ago, and Danielle, you and I were having a conversation earlier this week, just
speaking about manufacturing pride, but also the authenticity of the emotion and authenticity
in pride.
Yeah, actually, it's to bring in our invisible member again, Jess Tracy, and her work.
Because what blew me away about her work is she put science and language to something
I remember feeling so deeply, which is like, she talked about authentic versus hubistic
pride.
And when you see people in authentic pride, it's like they're calm and friendly and more
creative and they're into the like kind of entrainment and, you know, all that with the
team and that real kind of deeper connection.
And then what you see with folks like that too is that, I mean, she did this great study
that was literally just like, she gave these cognitive tests to people and she told some
people that they did like really, really good on it.
And that basically was the pride thing.
So you do that.
And then those people, even if it was like the simplest test, like will persevere for
two times longer because of what that does for them, that kind of energy expansion.
And so what I think is so interesting about that is the beauty of pride on that light
side.
But like we were talking about the dark side, and this is something that broke my heart
when it happened.
I was a big Lance fan.
So Lance Armstrong crushes it at the 93 and 95 tour de France is he beats cancer.
I mean, he is, you know, Joseph Campbell, hero's journey on the world stage.
And then what I think is powerful that she, you know, kind of pointed to in her study
that helped me understand what happened is like the pressure to sustain that kind of
glory and triumph can get to you.
It depends on what your motivation is, what your training is, Cassidy growing up in that
environment trained her to be different when she hit the peak of that podium.
And so I was like, Oh, wow, that is what drove him to doping is it's like this deep kind
of twist of pride.
And he's like our ignorance.
