A single episode, I make a point of asking Alan and putting him on the spot, and I ask
about parallels in the animal kingdom with our furry and not so furry friends.
So what can you tell me about parallels, anything we've discussed today, did anything
flash in your brain, anything that we've observed that you know will blow my mind?
Well, you know, pride's an easy one in some ways, because you can look at high and low
status individuals and our primate cousins.
You can look at chimps, you can look at gorillas.
Gorillas literally have a chest beating behavior.
So mountain gorillas will chest beat after they win a battle, which is one of the most
hilarious behaviors.
And I think it's my favorite animal.
I think it's a whole body expression with the vocalization, with the chest beating.
And we see it in humans basically too, which is so viscerally something we do in chimps.
So we see basically alpha male expresses something like pride all the time, kind of
running around, gesticulating wildly, swinging really, you know, really strongly around.
And you see pylorection, they look bigger, their posture is big, suppose they're walking
around on two feet, which is funny to see.
So yeah, really interesting parallels there.
We see parallels for shame as well.
So after an animal is sort of victimized, kind of prostrates itself or slumps and wants
to make yourself small.
Not to go back to the well, but you told us about a phenomenal experiment involving capuchin
monkeys last week.
Any of that feed into this, it sounds like a lot of this stuff that we've observed naturally,
but did we ever do any kind of experiments or and I know this is not your devoted area
of expertise.
You're just a smart person.
I'm asking this.
So don't worry.
So I talked about admiration, right, which is a mix of like pride and awe.
We feel admiration toward people we identify with, who we think are in the same group as
us accomplishing things.
And with capuchins, this is kind of the same experiment where they give them money and
they can pay for things.
One of the really funny findings is that they're willing to pay for pictures of the alpha male
It's very interesting when you give capuchins this economy, you really see what they value.
I can't believe that the second favorite thing is the photos of alpha males.
That's wild.
It's incredible.
Yeah.
Do they do anything once they obtain the photo?
Do they train the trade the photos like cards or anything like that?
Are they very possessive of it once they have it?
I don't think they give them the photos.
I think they just present them.
But that would be an interesting experiment as well.
If you give them stuff to trade.
So they're paying just to look at them.
Yeah, just to look.
They pay to see the alpha male.
It's incredible.
I told you this is a whole other podcast we're going to start.
I'm telling you that 100 percent this is a whole other show.
Thank you.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
