But I'd love to hear from each of you a bit more about your journey and find out why,
why vocal and speech emotion, you know, what is it about this corner scientifically that
excites you and, and why you're here and involved with this workshop and challenges.
I can go because I was, I want to reflect on something that Alan said.
So he mentioned that vocal burst were like intercultural, but it's also like intergenerational.
And this is something that actually is the reason why I'm here because so I originally
got contacted by the NFB, which is like National Film Board of Canada, because they were basically
producing an artistic project for a artist who wanted to do a project around laughter.
And the original inspiration of this project by this artist, which is Etienne Paquet, by
the way, is the way he managed to communicate with his grandma, I think it was, yes, with
his grandma.
So his grandma is deaf.
And so he has a hard time to communicate with this person in a verbal way.
But he basically telling, he was telling us a story that was so touching about the way
that through laughter, they were able to basically like basically when they were together, they
were laughing all the time.
And there was, there was, it was the, you know, even when I'm talking about it, like
it does me something like they were managed to, they managed to exchange, you know, like
emotions and feelings.
And, you know, I don't know, there is something very interesting in this aspect that this is in
some sense universal, like this vocal burst burst has something that is universal across
ages, across culture.
And this is in some sense what, what it's one of the pieces that connects all of us.
Yeah, I think it's so inspiring to me.
And so I had this like wonderful opportunity to kind of contribute within an artistic
project and, you know, be able to inform me, you know, I'm a scientist.
Most of the thing I do, I write a research paper on like 10% in the world, read them for
once, you know, I could do something.
I could tell my parents, you can go, it's safe, you will understand.
And, you know, it's, it means something to me to be able to like have this reach.
And yeah, that's, that's how I got into this.
Do you want to talk about universal?
Everybody just wants to do something they could show mom and dad and have them be
proud.
That's amazing.
Thank you for sharing.
