This is where science is really useful because it adds this other layer of understanding.
We often think of tears like Jason was saying, oh, it's about sadness, but it actually is
much deeper.
And there's this great analysis of tears by lefts showing that it really is about when
you recognize the sacred that that is fleeting, right?
And at the holidays, a lot of us are going to be tearing up for reasons we don't quite
understand because it's like, wow, I had this childhood experiences of a family and that's
changing and now I'm at this stage of my life and kind of why we gather is meaning different
things.
I love Jason's story because it connects us to this really interesting kind of the kind
of work that Alan does of like taking a concept tears, but really finding the deeper nuances
to them.
And one branch of the tears are these sacred tears that I think holidays love them.
Yeah, it's close to yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, I love them because I think again, they serve to start function.
They resolved dissonance.
They relieve stress, but they also allow us to digest our grief, metabolize our grief.
My friend Jamie Wills as we're all choking on undigested grief.
And sometimes these spaces, these holidays, these rituals, they provide a kind of dramatic
opportunity for catharsis through like the creation of aesthetic distance.
You know, like the song creates a space holding for the processing of these emotions.
A film can do the same thing.
I think of the film, let's say love actually.
The end sequence of love actually at the airport when the Beach Boys God Only Knows
is playing one of the greatest songs of all time and all the characters in the film appear
and everybody is sort of fine, you know, has been redeemed and has found love.
But then that song is God Only Knows What I Do Without You, which is exactly the same
as Old Lang Syne.
It's realizing how much I love you and what God Only Knows What I Do Without You.
But that again, that's that's I think a healthy way to metabolize the grief inherent to the
human condition, the agony and the ecstasy as they say.
And it's a fantastic example.
