Alan, one, any thoughts on that? And two, just to go back to the same question of something
that excites you coming down the road that you know about, but also any thoughts on what
Kelly just shared?
Yeah, I mean, I resonate completely with what Kelly was just saying. I think love is the
most fulfilling emotion that people experience in life and such a determinant of people's
wellness. And when the relationships are going well, people are better off so much
more well than when their relationships are going poorly. Technology that can potentially
step in when there's conflict would be really critical and has to do it in a way that respects
people's privacy, obviously, has to do it in a way that's very transparent to people
that people can control. But even saying, look, you've engaged in this pattern of texting
before didn't go well, I suggest you do this instead for potentially taking that to the
domain of video chat or audio. There's so much that technology can do in just helping
us guide our relationships through some relations too. You can imagine, as Kelly was saying
earlier, like a deep fake version of a loved one where you can interact with them and sort
of, I know that deep fake is scary, right? But if we know it's a digital person, if it's
an honest depiction and helps us sort of practice different solutions to a conflict and comes
up with realistic responses that could happen and really helps us work on our relationship
issues, I think that's really exciting. And I still think that if we could design the
ideal dating app and incorporate it in the way they incorporate human matchmakers and
really allow people to really allow it to be optimized for deep commitment and not shallow,
shallow, ideal, ideal is not like sire, not attracting, you know, matching other people
who are just attracted to each other. If we could do that, I think that we could create
more love in the world. I think the world could have more love in it. And I think that
would make the world a better place. And I don't see it being impossible that AI could
have an impact on that in the very near future. I mean, AI has more information than you get
out of a profile picture on a dating app and out of height. And there was a little bit
more value than that. If you were to give it the information and say, you know, find
me a match and don't use this information improperly, and you could trust the system
to do that, I think people would find more matches. And the question is, what is the
right information? I think a lot of the right information is not something that you can
spell out in an essay. It probably has a lot to do with nonverbal behavior with the
intangibles. And so I really think that AI that can read people's nonverbal behavior
is really essential to that too.
