And forgive me if I'm getting us off on a tangent here, but you mentioned vocal bursts
and the observation of vocal bursts.
Does that mean, through this mapping, is there any overlap with, I'm an animal lover, I'm
a dog lover and a cat appreciator, but really a dog person?
And has there been any overlap between us and the animal world, the zoological world
now that we have this non, you know, language, this different language, this auditory, all
these sounds and that have you even touched any of that with the data yet?
Is there overlap?
Am I crazy for asking that?
Well, it's not my data.
You were nodding your head to what I thought was, yes, you're crazy for bringing that up.
There is a ton of data and it's kind of sparse and it's from all of these different disciplines
that I had not been familiar with until I started working with Docker.
One of the things that people had been looking at within Emotion Science is mice and how
they vocalize in a way that's similar to laughter when you basically tickled them.
And this was something people were studying.
Go on.
And it's funny because it happens when you're tickling them, which emulates their version
of play behavior.
There's this whole literature when you look into play behavior on rough and tumble play.
And then you see it in every mammal basically.
Every mammal at a young age engages in rough and tumble play and they often make vocalizations
similar to laughter or at least breathe in a way that's similar to laughter whether they
vocalize or not and make a kind of facial expression, which is an open mouthed smile.
Different versions of the open mouthed smile exist in canines, mice and pretty much every
mammal you can think of, seals.
People have observed them with foxes and yeah, it's crazy.
Prepare for me to ask a question similar to this in every episode.
Every emotion we cover and foxes, do they do it too?
And seals?
I want to know every time.
Focus on that.
We're working on that one.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay, good.
As long as we got top people on that one.
We'll have to do a whole episode on laughter.
So I could go off on a massive 10.
