What role is emotion playing in the work that you've been doing and then that you've been
researching and looking into?
Yeah.
So thank you.
You mentioned in your beginning that the sort of learning or education that you were
describing was not necessarily school-based, particularly.
I think my French-speaking friends will correct me if I'm wrong about this, but I get the
feeling that when we talk about education in French or in Germany and perhaps over Europe,
it's much more sort of a family education or a societal education as well as a strict
perhaps Anglo-Saxon education at school.
So the education that I've been particularly interested has been, yeah, about learning
about these values, about learning what matters and what doesn't matter.
And learning through other people and other people's emotions.
So beyond certain biological needs, we can look around any room and we can see what is
relevant, what is worthy to us, what is significant to us.
But perhaps as a child or perhaps as a newcomer or as a tourist, you know, a naive tourist
to somewhere, it can be useful, it can even be a shortcut to look at what other people
are finding relevant and interesting in their environment.
You know, fortunately we can learn from others that you shouldn't go and pet the dangerous
tiger and it only takes one person to be bitten by that and we've learned that.
One unlucky person had to go pet that tiger first.
And we thank you for your service, faceless, nameless person.
Yes, at the beginning of humanity or indeed the first person to try a chicken egg perhaps,
if you could say the same thing, that was equally brave perhaps.
But yeah, so we can pick up not only what's relevant in our own environment ourselves,
I mean, people have even described emotions as kind of antenna picking up what's relevant
in the environment.
We can pick up from other people as kind of proxies, proxy relevant detectors, what
is important in the environment and you know, are unimportant, of course, what is worth
attending to, what matters, what doesn't matter.
And this can be anything from whether to support the reds or the blues, I was going to say
the Yankees or the Mets, but I don't even know if that's the same sport.
You nailed it.
That's a good one.
That's a spara.
It was the extra Mets, I couldn't think.
You know, which God to pray to, these kind of things, you know, these are opaque to us.
We cannot know by ourselves.
It's not something you can just pick up.
It's something we learn from others.
