But how do we know if expressions are universal? That's the big question that we wrote in our notes
that I was building towards. Yeah, I mean, there's different sources of evidence, right? There's
comparisons to animals. That would be one source. Well, I love that. We've talked all about that.
That's right. That's right. So, you know, wolves growl and dogs growl and we understand what the
growl means. It's an anger display. It turns out that the growl is an authentic anger display in
the sense that the more convincing and deep of a growl you're able to make, you have to have a
bigger lung capacity. So it's actually a show of body size. And a lot of animals have a sound
similar to that they make. It's a threat display, at least a lot of mammals. There's, you know,
the scream. And you see alarm calls in different primates that have similar acoustic properties.
There's sort of laugh displays, the open mouth smile, which is a play behavior in almost every
mammal there is. So there's that kind of evidence. There's evidence looking at infants. So, you know,
before they have much time to learn about expressions, do they react in a way that shows
that, you know, they have some understanding of expressions? And there's studies that show
at a very, very young age matter, like, I don't know, four months or some three months, four months
when you're doing this paradigm where the infant is crossing, I don't know, must be after they're
crawling. I don't know, different studies at different ages. But one is when they're crawling,
you can do this study where they're crossing a glass bridge. And if the parents on the other
side of the bridge, and they're making, you know, a neutral face or a scared face, the kid won't
cross it. And when they're smiling, the kid will cross. So they're taking expressions as signals
at a very young age. Wow. That's cool. There's evidence like that. There's another reason to
have a kid. I'm just making a list. And that's a good one. I can run glass bridge experiments
with child writing that down. That's, that's a fun one right there. Yeah. Okay, so that's
infants, animals, and then also cross cultures. And the cross cultural studies are in some ways
most difficult. You can look at, you know, large scale cross cultural studies, like the kind that
we do, where we actually just get people in the US and China and India and Venezuela and Ethiopia
and South Africa to label lots of expressions to form lots of expressions to label what their own
expressions mean to report what they're feeling in a given situation. We do all these studies,
and we measure how similar things are across cultures. And usually it's, you know,
between 60 and 80% is shared across cultures along many, many dimensions, like 25 different
dimensions of expression in each study.
