In creating the motion maps, accounting for cultural differences and, you know, the way
things happen on the other side of the world versus here and so on and so forth, were there
debates of like, well, does that doesn't make sense to include that here?
We have to put that over on this side instead.
Yeah.
So it happens first when you're translating the terms.
It's like, oh, like how do you, how exactly do you translate this?
And typically there will be some single word that's like, this is the most direct translation,
but it doesn't have quite the same meaning.
So sometimes you want to add another word, make it like a phrase.
And that usually two or three words you can find an experience description that is similar
enough.
So we, for example, we gathered a bunch of ratings of videos.
So like, what are the emotions evoked by videos in the US and Japan and in Europe and across
all of those three, there were 21 different dimensions that combined different words that
were preserved really, really well across the cultures.
And so notably there, you know, some of the dimensions didn't have like a one term that
you could take and directly translate.
I think it was like, all was one of them.
So yeah, in terms of other positive emotions, we have in there pride, admiration, sexual
desire, love.
So like lots of different, there's a lot more we can add to that list is probably like 15.
So I love that you, you thought of sexual desire first and then went, yeah, I guess love too.
You know, people say they're distinct and they are.
They are, I just really appreciate the order in which your brain recalled them.
Anyway, I could go on for a long time.
So there's a lot of different breakdowns within the positive emotions.
But in terms of cultural differences, we see at least 21 dimensions.
They're shared across pretty much every culture we've looked at and experience.
And then a lot of those are shared in expression as well.
There's that that's just in response to videos and probably more.
That's like a lower limit, I would say.
