I'm excited to bring up. He sent me an article today about horror restaurants that are popping.
I was in the New York Times and this particular restaurant happened to be vegan. And there
was a quote I pulled from the article because I loved it. It was, there's this sense that
horror fans lack empathy because how else could they enjoy horror? He says, but a lot
of horror fans are so empathetic that they don't want to eat animals, which I mean,
that's up for debate that a lot of horror fans are vegan. Are there studies that zero
in on their empathy levels and show how empathic a horror fan is or fans of anything for that
matter?
There's a there's a little bit of work on fiction, you know, reading fiction and some
of it is horrifying is promotes empathy. There's a really interesting study that should make
Fred happy, which is when they release blockbusters that are horrifying, violence actually drops
throughout the United States because everybody's in the theater, leaning into each other, hugging
each other, sort of forming these bonds. But the, I think the broader thesis is, is yet
to be tested. And we should ask Fred about his thinking about this, like how in the world
could seeing horror make you more empathetic to your fellow human beings?
Well, I, I would sooner just point to like, when you think of horror fans, no offense.
I'll put myself as one of them. When you think of Goths and horror fans, when you just think
they're the most gentle people, generalization, but when you just think of just how they are,
how they speak, they're just gentle. And, you know, I think somewhere in, I don't know
if that's the answer, but somewhere in there, I think that goes for, I think even I actually
think the same of like, people who are really into heavy metal, like metalheads, who are
into really dark metal, actually, the ones who I've met and bands who I've met are, it's
a real quiet sort of, they're sensitive. I see them as very sensitive. I have never encountered
a metal band who was just like trying to be tough backstage and like, what are you doing
here? It's always like, I think they're soft spoken and sensitive. It's like, again, it's a
generalization, but that's, that's how I see them.
