What, what can you tell me about parallels that we see in the animal kingdom with, you
know, the dopaminergic circuitry is present in almost every animal down to fruit flies,
you know, people study dopamine in Drosophila fruit flies.
They squeeze dopamine into little fruit flies, they got it too.
They already have it, they already have it in there.
Yeah, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to suggest that we're putting it inside fruit flies.
I meant the forces of the universe that create us all, they're putting it into fruit flies.
Oh yeah, those fruit flies, they desire those bananas, those rotting bananas.
Exactly.
They're the names of everything they desire.
And it's not just food, it's sex in every animal, right?
Are you going to tell me about fruit fly sex as well, Alan?
Because I don't know if I can handle that.
It's actually, you'd be surprised how many scientists spend their entire career studying fruit fly sex.
Oddly enough, I don't think I would.
The more uncertain you make the reward, the more you want it, and that's what gambling does.
You can see the dopaminergic circuitry involved in gambling.
You can see how giving people dopaminergic drugs, like cocaine, makes them want to gamble, right?
And it's very clear that you see the same kinds of behaviors in primates, believe it or not.
They do very similar studies with cocaine, literally, and dopamine and reward.
Primates will pay for things, they'll gamble money.
Yeah, it's crazy.
Hang on, you're steamrolling over the cocaine apes story real quick.
We give it to spiders, we give it to everything.
We've given cocaine to every single animal.
You guys gave a spider cocaine? What is wrong with you?
What were you thinking?
That sounds way more like Studio 54 than like a scientific lab.
It's like we got the stars, we got the food, we got the drugs.
I'm in the wrong line of work, man.
There's all these experiments on capuchin monkeys where they give them money
and there's like these little economies where they'll pay for pornography
and they'll pay for food sometimes, they'll pay for their pornography
even if they have a choice of pornography versus food, yeah.
And they figure out how to gamble the money and play with it and all that stuff, yeah.
Hang on a second.
If I'm following this, I'm sorry we're over time, but it doesn't matter right now
because you just blew my mind.
So the capuchin monkeys, the experiments,
they've established little societies where they will barter and trade goods.
The monkeys, they have their own currency that they exchange for monkey pornography.
Well, they don't come up with the currency, but we give it to them
and we can view it with a meaning where they can, you know, they collect the tokens
and they give them to the experimenter and the experimenter gives the monkey something
and then the monkeys will, you know, fight each other for the tokens
and, you know, do all the things that you think they'll pay for sex and stuff.
Crazy, crazy shit.
You know, I've seen the same experiment done in Bushwick.
And I can't confirm this is how it happens.
Can't confirm.
