We usually start with the definition, but I'm curious, for scientific purposes, how
many variations or categories of love have we established?
But before I get my science people to weigh in on that, Lina, it is my understanding that
you speak Greek.
Yes, I do.
And much like the Inuit folks have multiple words for snow, I'm told in Greek there are
multiple words for love.
Is that right?
Correct.
Now, there's discrepancy, whether it's seven or eight, I believe it's eight, but you have
to kind of combine what is ancient Greek philosophy, you know, Plato and Aristotle all have their
philosophical beliefs, which tend to play true.
And yeah, we love a lot.
We Greek people.
And it's my favorite, and we'll get into all of them.
I mean, I can tell you, my favorite is philotomy, philia, friendship, the love of friendship.
There's a reason all the Greeks went into the hospitality business.
They all own restaurants and when you go to the, there are many beautiful countries, but
people love to go to Greece because there's this love of life and this love of, it's bigger
than empathy.
There is another word for empathy.
But this one is friendship that is not about anything but loving and lifting people.
And it's a way of life for us.
It can sometimes be overwhelming because, you know, we don't have one family member.
We have about 375,000 family members because once they become friends, strangers become
friends, philia, philotomy, agape, eros, eros is the love, erota, everything in Greek,
it sounds scary, like even Kanakarides, you look at it and you're like, oh my God, there's
so many letters, but it literally, there are no silent letters.
It's exactly as it's spelled.
So when you hear erota, erota is the love, the romantic sexual love.
That's the love for Valentine's Day.
It's actually really appropriate.
You're doing love for Thanksgiving because the philotomy, the philia, is all about what
Thanksgiving is.
We're bringing in people, like my husband says, I collect, I collect people.
Well, yeah, that's what you're supposed to do.
So that's so appropriate with philia.
Then you get into other ones.
There's mania, like love that's gotten so crazy that it goes the wrong way.
Then there's the older ones, ancient love, story, which is more the love of family, how
you feel about your family, your familial love.
And then there's ludus, which is basically like a crush, a kid having a crush on somebody,
that sort of delicious feeling of really loving something for that moment.
And then 30 seconds later, it's like, yeah, it's okay.
Having raised two daughters who are still in the process because, yeah, there's a lot
of that.
And then prahma, which is more of a enduring love.
That's the love that's been around for years and years and years, and it's come to an understanding.
And then one of the other ones is Plato had platia, which is more of like a platonic love,
self-love, or Aristotle, actually.
It was Aristotle.
Plato's was, oh no, Agapi's the main one.
And Agapi is just, that's the empathetic love.
We love her strangers.
We love everyone.
And then the last one is self-love, which Aristotle said that if we can't, in order
to love others, we have to love ourselves first.
It's a reflection of our own love.
And that was also really big in the middle school years because, you know, I would be
like, that girl's mean because she's unhappy inside.
She doesn't love herself, you know, just turn off the noise and have fun.
Anyway, I talk too much.
The professionals need to talk.
