One of the things we saw on our new data this weekend, we just asked, are you happier at
home working or are you happier at the office? Just straight choice. And 46% of professional
workers are happier working remotely versus 20% working in person. You know, what's really
interesting is that 26% say they feel they can accomplish more work goals, they're more
productive and that's only two points behind being in the office. So obviously, when you
take into account a lot of the other factors here, you have an emerging group of people
that want that hybrid because they feel it can be more productive, they have more life
work balance, which is all in the data. But I do want to hit on one thing, if we could
do it at some point real quick, you know, Dr, you brought up that point about horizontal
and I took that also to just talk about inclusivity in the workplace, right? Because there's
a big focus right now on on DEI and I don't think companies quite understand what they
have with remote work. And one of the questions that we put in the survey this week is we
asked, where are you most likely to feel the following? And we gave them a choice working
from the office or working from home. And we asked questions like able to speak my mind
freely. Where would you guys think that would be in the office or at home?
70% at home. Being able to speak without being interrupted 70%. Knee, I feel heard and
respected by leadership was about equal, even with the remote barrier. But in all these
numbers, they go up almost 15 points among women and BIPOC women. And what gets really
interesting in here is you kind of go deeper into the data. They're also feel particularly
BIPOC relaxed, happier, more confident, more personally fulfilled and more energized, working
remotely. And it took us a while to start to understand I'm curious what you guys feel
about this is that I think what they're telling us and we see it in some of the other data
is that there are all these old school 2019 performative behaviors that women have had
to go through into the pale, stale male workplace. And that doesn't exist in this realm. And
that could be a really good thing.
That's profound. That is truly profound. I mean, that's a cultural shift, right, that we didn't
expect.
