What I'm curious to what you guys think, not to shift back to the work piece, but like
how AI is also going to, you know, go into work.
And one theory I kind of have is that you just have a whole generation of gamers and
gaming behaviors that could potentially become really interesting workplace behaviors.
It comes together with the introduction of AI tools to kind of increase the
immersiveness of remote work, our ability to communicate in virtual environments,
how easily we can sort of get a hold of each other, ask each other questions,
how easily kind of conversational aside, the things that definitely happen in person
don't happen as well remotely. You know, a lot of those things require AI,
because AI can tell you when people want to communicate with each other, how you kind of
surface those things to each other, because everything is about notifications. When you
get the notification, nobody wants the notification right away. People want a sense of the urgency
of what needs to be attended to. People want suggestions as to why they should break off
into video meetings or send audio messages and all of that is going to be driven by AI.
Dakar, you seem particularly tickled by that idea as I was. I was just curious.
It's, you know, one part of the question is how does AI change work? And like Alan's saying,
like just the richness of the information. And I think it's going to make work more horizontal,
where information is flowing in both directions between the managers and teams. And, you know,
you become more creative. But the gaming aspect is a separate process that John
I think has hit upon a big idea about work culture now. Like when I lecture the days of
lecturing from the blackboard with an outline, those are toast. And it's like full on game. It's,
you know, quizzes and images and videos and, you know, people feeding in stuff. So it's an
interesting possibility of how we wouldn't have anticipated that technology would change work
is to gamify it, which might be good. But yeah, and it's just so interesting that they have a
generation that's just way more accustomed to being engaged in a completely different way.
That's right. Which is good news.
