Jack, are you been in this field for a minute?
And so I have to imagine when Alan came along with his new methods and new data, what was
your initial reaction?
How did that sort of look through your lens, through somebody who's been in this field
and been sort of immersed in this nuance for a while?
You know, it was an epiphany, Matt.
It was, you know, as Alan was saying, our field really begins with Charles Irwin.
And really earlier, almost all of the great traditions, the philosophical traditions have
thought about, you know, like you said, what are these feeling states that overtake us
and make us see the world and have this rich experience?
And people have been thinking about it for thousands of years, and Darwin came along.
And actually, people don't know about this.
In his two books on human beings in 1871 and 1872, he wrote rich descriptions of about
45 different states, right?
But in the 60s, Paul Ekman came along, pioneer in the field, and he studied photographs of
six emotions, anger, fear, sadness, surprise, disgust, and happiness, or a smile.
And that dominated the field.
And people thought, that's emotion.
You know, there's just one positive state.
Yeah.
You know, when Alan went out with these big data techniques and said, instead of having
people watch six films, let's have them watch 2100.
Instead of them judging six facial expressions, let's have them judge 1500 with all kinds
of different subjective items that you rate your feelings about the film or the facial
expression or whatever the stimulus is.
And then you get these complicated maps.
I was, I literally, it was like an aesthetic experience where I suddenly realized that
there is this space of emotional feeling or how we see emotion in others that has dozens
of states that has these complicated blends that has states like beauty and awe and interest
and boredom and confusion and realization.
And it suddenly, you know, it brought into the field the real richness of how complicated
emotions are, but tractable, right, through this scientific lens.
So it was, it felt, I was looking at a painting, you know, like, ah, this is, this is what
feeling is about.
So it was a thrilling moment.
