Moses writes, I've heard that people in different cultures express emotions differently. Yeah.
By using English emotion terms, are we introducing a Western bias? That's a really cool question.
All right. Thank you, Moses. So what do we think by using English emotion terms? Are
we introducing a Western bias, Alan?
Yeah, I mean, this is a really important topic for emotion science and impact the AI, you know,
and we gather data from around the world, so we can actually address this like the
computational kind of data driven way. And that's been our approach. So, you know,
rather than sort of taking a few pictures and getting people to label them in different cultures,
we actually take, you know, thousands of responses to stimuli of people, actual people,
and what they're actually feeling at the time and what they say their expression means they
look at their expression and report what they were expressing. And they do it in their own language
and like emotion, English emotion terms, Spanish, Mandarin, Chinese, you know,
Emparrick, we've looked at a lot of different languages. And they use emotion terms in terms
of smile and smile, laugh and cry. And about 75% of the time, the English emotion terms line up with
what people say, like experts say is their most direct translations of different cultures when
they're used to describe expressions. And that's like when you're like a globalized culture,
somewhat globalized cultures, I mean, we're almost everybody on Earth basically. But about
25% of the time they're subtle to moderate differences and what the expressions mean in
terms of how they're linked to emotions. And so there, it could be misleading, in some cases,
to say, like, this is the emotion term that's linked to this expression, in addition to the fact
that like, you don't want to describe an expression in emotion terms, and we have people think that
you're trying to attribute that emotional experience to that person. When people know that
it's a social signal, it can be authentic, it can be posed, or it can be used for communication
and all that. So there are all these subtleties that we're sensitive to. On the other hand,
if you don't use emotion terms at all, it's really hard to capture the meaning people take away
from expressions, or even just like, characterize a facial expression at all, like a scowl is just
this really, it turns out that that's just not a very specific word. It can be pain or anger or
any number of things. But like the expression people associate with pain is so reliably distinct
from the one people associate with anger. And so it's really, it's tricky, it's tricky, you kind
of have to use emotion terms if you want to get at the specificity of expressions, then we turn
algorithms on those terms. And it's not that we are trying to predict what people are feeling,
but like the terms, the set, the suite, the distribution of terms people use to label an
expression. And we try to, and we use methods that, yeah, basically take out the different
compounds. And then we take those algorithms, and now the outputs are proxies, like basically an
anger in this algorithm. We have one for facial expression, vocal expression, and they don't
always align. So it should be very clear that this is not attributing a feeling. It's like,
there's different modalities, not saying the same thing, but it's a really good proxy for what is
a pattern of expression.
