What's the start as we usually do, Alan? I'm going to come straight to you, sir. I mentioned
in the intro for a lot of people the idea of doubt as an emotion. It doesn't really register
in the same way as all the other ones we've discussed. Where does it land on the map? What's
it nearby? Does it live in the same neighborhood as anxiety? Give me a little bit of background
on what doubt looks like to you. Yeah. There's the purely logical version of doubt, which is,
I just don't think that's true. Then there's the feeling of doubt, which can be called suspicion
or skepticism or whatever it is. They are, I think, skeptical or separable. You can identify cases
where you just doubt something, you're just skeptical of something. You can't figure out
why it is. Then the feeling is what drives you to search for holes in an explanation or in a
picture. They're separable, and I think the feeling really drives the cognitive state most
of the time. Where does it lie? It lies near confusion. It lies near interest. It lies near
contempt. Somewhere between confusion and contempt or interest and surprise sometimes.
But it is definitely, it's an expression. People can form this facial expression that we call,
sometimes it's called a not face, but it's really identified as, yeah, you just did it.
I don't know if I can recall it. You're going to have to confuse me once more, but I promise you
that won't be hard to do. Keep going. I'll see if we can get another one. Let's find out.
That's it. That's very Pink Panther. For everyone listening on the podcast,
immediately go to YouTube and check out Alan's face. It's the single eyebrow raise.
Some elements of the expression of disgust and some elements of the expression of confusion
mixed together, but it's recognized in several cultures.
And there's also a vocal expression trying to think of exactly what it sounds like. Hold on.
So there's the doubt and there's the interest expression. So there's a whole
gradient of expressions there. So that's where it lies in this space.
