But, amazing, amazing conversation, but I swear I'm not letting you go without tapping
into this and we almost did it there.
To the best of our knowledge, is awe uniquely human?
I know that's hard to answer.
I think there's different levels to which different emotions can be seen in other species
and I think awe is one of the ones that is really hard, but I think one of the things
that humans take to a new level is the idea of focusing on collective problem solving.
We come together just to figure out why this thing is the way it is, just to understand
reality.
So, you know, we vocalize awe, vocalize awe, you know, that vocalization brings us together.
All emotional localizations orient everybody to a specific kind of thing.
We hear it and we look for what caused it.
I mean, in the case of awe, it's looking for a mystery, right?
And so we have a way of bringing people together very rapidly to try to solve problems and
collective problem solving does strike me as something that humans are uniquely good
at.
It's not, you know, see, it's to some extent in other species as well.
I want to pick on that.
I want to pick on that.
I want there to be awe for other species because I feel like that's the way, that's the reciprocal
nature of being on the planet.
If I've learned anything from James Cameron and his class on the whales, no, but whales
are a social species.
And when I think about collective effervescence and I think about moving in unison and I think
about synchrony and I look at honeybees and it's like maybe they don't have the story
they tell themselves, which we humans are so good at for both our betterment and our
worsening.
But it's like the true inherent interconnecting, merging, you know, the metonymy of the part
in the hole and all of that juice, they got to be feeling that in the ocean when everybody
gets back together in the Arctic.
They've got to be feeling that in the hive when the honey's really flowing, right?
I mean, this is just I'd like to believe they are, but I'm like, I want that.
I believe it.
I feel it.
