Jason, let's start with you traditionally, sir.
What does this time of year feel like for you at the Silva household?
Sure.
Well, as a kid, you know, the December holidays were very exciting, obviously, because growing
up and for me, at least in Venezuela, it meant that we were going to go to the U.S., usually
a place like Miami, and there was going to be shopping and gifts and abundance and vacation.
And so for all those usual reasons, it was really, really great.
But eventually, I developed a sort of bittersweet relationship with New Year's, specifically
more than Christmas or Hanukkah.
I come from a Jewish household, but in any case, New Year's.
The song Old Lang Syne, I always thought was sort of the epitome of the happy sad with
Director Cameron Crow calls the happy sad or the bittersweet.
And even though I didn't really understand the lyrics to the song, emotionally, it felt
like a song where we were celebrating those people we love, but with this shadow being
cast of everything is fleeting and everything is transient.
And maybe it was because I would always see like my mom or my grandma like get welled up
when they said happy new year.
And it was, I think, because the joy and the angst related to the passing of another year
goes right to the heart of what for me is death anxiety or the anxiety of mortality
and the transience in general.
So it's ironic that when we are reminded that time is fleeting, we want to hug the ones
we love more.
Because we love them, even though there's this tinge of sadness that no matter how much
we squeeze, we can't stop the passing of time.
It reminds me of a line that was recited by the Ethan Hawke character in the film Before
Sunrise.
And if you've seen that wonderful cult classic film, it's about two people who fall in love
on a train.
They spend the night in Vienna and it's a dreamlike atmosphere, but it's haunted by the fact
that it is a passing moment.
And towards the end of the film, he recites to her a poem by W.H.
Auden when he says, and all the clocks in the city began to whir and chime, oh, let
not time deceive you.
You cannot conquer time and headaches and worries vaguely, life leaks away and time
will have its fancy tomorrow or today.
And so it just, to me, it just hits at the worm, at the worm at the core of the human
condition and the human situation.
And even with all that turbulent angst associated with those feelings of transience, I still
am kind of a masochist and that I love old Langzine.
I just want to go there because I want to feel those things intensely.
I want to, yeah.
So that's what comes to mind.
