I was into it in high school. I used to wake up in the morning, three in the morning. There's
a technique you can actually wake yourself up and then kind of follow yourself back asleep.
And you find yourself in a dream and you sort of know you're in a dream. And at that point,
you can actually make things happen just by thinking about them, which is really cool.
So I was really into that for a little while in high school. And I had some lucid dreams.
I mean, it's pretty hard to force it, but I probably had, I had dozens of lucid dreams.
Am I hearing that properly? Yeah, I can't remember why. I think it was because I saw
the Matrix or it might have been Waking Life. And both of them kind of referenced lucid dreams.
Yeah, both of those will do it. I was going to ask, I just wanted to make sure I heard that
because my follow up was going to be, what's the funnest, like craziest thing you did in
your dream that once you were in control, I want to know what Alan left to his own devices. High
school Alan can do anything. What's he do? Do you remember? So first few lucid dreams that I had,
I would say probably the first two thirds of them, I just tried to fly. And that worked
sometimes. The problem is when you're in there, so I was able to fly pretty consistently. But
like when you're in the air, it's hard to keep yourself asleep because it's scary. Then you
wake up. So it feels like you're falling. Yeah. So that was tough. But then I think the coolest
ones that I had were kind of at the end of that whole fad that I was into, where I would just
instead of doing anything in the dream, I would just meditate in the dream.
So your go to move, you found yourself, you have captured the fire from Mount Olympus,
that is the ability to control your entire reality. And you opt to do nothing. You have to
meditate to see. So here's the thing about dreaming and you do something kind of crazy,
you wake up pretty fast because something happens. And then, you know, it's hard to keep
yourself not to kind of around like, you know, the two like, wake woken up to like wake actually
wake up. And then if you meditate in the dream, you can actually keep yourself in that state for
a longer period of time. And it results in like a very disembodied feeling.
