Most recent and limited exposure to this world is talking to Alan about his work and when
we talk about detecting emotions and interpreting them and just the way in which he's leveraging
vocal bursts and facial muscles and expressions and all these different things.
And so I can't help but wonder how did you guys set out to detect those things with what
I imagined was a very different tool set available to you back then.
Yeah, well, in one way to think about it, I mean, emotion means many things.
So when we talk about someone having an emotion, we kind of imagine, okay, there's things going
on in their face.
They look angry.
There's things going on inside their body.
We can't see.
Maybe their heart rate is speeding up, maybe hormones are pumping through their blood.
They probably say to themselves, oh, I'm angry.
And so those are always sometimes called components of emotion.
And so what Alan does is he tends to look at facial expressions, which is one thing
that often people associate as an indicator of emotion, but also emotion involves thinking
and cognition.
And so when I approach the problem, coming more from cognitive psychology, which sort
of tries to come up with models of the mind, was, well, what are the things that you think
about that might trigger you to have an emotion?
And so, and there's different theories about emotions arise.
And in my and Stacy and myself's work, we're most influenced by what are called appraisal
theories.
Appraisal, yeah.
I argue that when you see an event, you think about, okay, how does this event relate to
me?
Is it going to help me goals?
Are they going to hurt my goals?
Did Alan do it to me?
Is he the one to blame?
Typically.
You control the damage he's about to do.
And so these are all kind of thoughts and the argument for appraisal theory is that those
thoughts are antecedents of an emotion.
So you see an event and like the bear coming in the room doesn't trigger an emotion.
When you realize that bear is a threat to your bodily, to your life, then you start
to feel the fear from an appraisal theory perspective.
So we approached emotion from the thinking side.
So how would AI, given a description of, okay, this bear has entered the room or my paper
just got rejected right before my tenure review, how do those thoughts trigger an emotion?
And then you might associate an expression with that or working backwards if Alan recognizes
an expression, I might try to reconstruct, well, what are likely the appraisals, the
judgments that person made that elicited that facial expression?
