I'm actually curious for Greg's thoughts on this, like, how do you separate the irrational
concerns from the rational concerns and sort of how do you avoid all of those things or
do you want to only avoid the rational ones?
Yeah, either way, I like to think through these problems is the real life analogy.
I mean, you know, I love a certain brand, I can have a bad experience of that brand
because, you know, the sales assistants in one store just don't relate to me or I just
don't like them or they're just not interested in me versus I can go into another store in
the real real world where, you know, you meet somebody who you just established that connection
with. So, you know, one of the, you know, so one of the things we think about, I mean,
because, you know, I mean, a big company doesn't set out to hire sales assistants that give
people a bad experience, but we know what happens. And what's a good experience for me is not
a good experience, but for you guys. So, diversity becomes a big part of this world. You know,
do I want to speak to somebody the same age as me, the same gender as me, the same ethnicity
as me? Do I want to speak to them in the same language I prefer to speak? You know, I mean,
these are all preferences that become different parts of different relationships and different
environments. And these are some of the things we think about. We touched on some of the data
and ethics issues. So, first rule of our business, you know, we're not setting out to trick you
to think and to trick you into thinking you're talking to a real person. Hi, I'm Greg. I'm a
digital person. Okay. You know, you got to be, you want to establish trust, you got to be up
right now. The world of privacy, you know, and, you know, we are in an era where as consumers, as
people, we're thinking more carefully about, we're starting to think about more carefully about
data privacy. And, and, you know, and ultimately, you know, I go back to, you know, the human
relationship, you know, as human beings, when we meet somebody new, we make a decision about what
do we want to share? Okay, how much do we want to share? And, you know, and one of the things we
like to think about as a company and an organization is, you know, how does that model work in, in
the, you know, in this, in this next generation of the digital worlds that we're creating in that
moment? Because, you know, quite clearly, there's a huge amount of focus from a consumer point of
view, from a regulatory point of view, from an antitrust point of view, you know, looking at how we
fundamentally re-engineer it. But, you know, we like to think about it is when you meet somebody
for the first time, you make a decision about how much you're going to tell them, you know, do I
trust that person? Am I going, you know, you know, decisions that we think about as we go.
