With our pop culture robots, Wally, R2-D2, Baymax, are these accurate portrayals of what
we can expect from future of robotics, from the future of robotics?
What do you guys think?
Well, I think that there are certain kind of constraints that have to be addressed and
the way that robots are envisioned, often like their interaction with the world seems
to be the easy part in sci-fi, but actually that's the hard part.
The embodiment part is really the hard part.
And what we're going to solve first are sort of like disembodied ambient agents being really
intelligent and then introducing those into the world.
And when you conceive of things that way, it becomes interesting, there are certain applications
like in body like Moxie, where you're sort of limiting the ability of that agent in accordance
with what it's able to accomplish in its physical form, which I think is really, really smart
but there will also be ways that our current digital assistants like Siri, Google Assistant,
and the Google search and all of the big algorithms that we interact with, start to manifest in
physical form and rather than having like a Wally or an R2-D2, you would just have something
that knows you through other ways.
The access is some sort of account that it has.
You might be talking to R2-D2 and it'll access your account and then when your friend talks
to R2-D2, it accesses their account, might have a different personality for each person
it talks to.
The software will be much more complex, much more not necessarily intelligent, right?
Because these robots sort of act like children and the implication of that is that the trajectory
of artificial intelligence is that we'll build something that's childlike and then we'll
build something that's adult-like, which is an intuition that's based on human development,
but that's not really how the technological progress works.
Instead, we're building things, we already have AI that's extremely adult-like in certain
ways, you know, can beat people at the most advanced board games, but lacks even, you
know, really, really basic, what we would consider basic skills that children have, like the
ability to empathize, like the ability to simulate each other and to engage in sort
of spontaneous altruism and, you know, we really need to focus on getting that part, right?
And if we can, then the R2-D2s of the future will just be really, really smart versions
of R2-D2.
But I think in terms of talking about sci-fi examples, the movie Her has a voice agent that
is really, can get into your mind even to the point where the main character fell in
love with a voice.
I think that is going to happen in the next five years.
I think we are not that far from that from happening.
And then that can lead to literally having what I think is our dream at Embodied to have
therapies that understand you at deeper levels than you may understand yourself and provide
you help.
This is not sci-fi because there's already a number of companies now that have received
FDA approval for what they call prescribable digital therapeutics, which is software that
applies cognitive behavior therapy and other evidence-based therapy techniques to help
people with things such as substance and drug abuse and the postpartum depression and insomnia
and ADHD and so on.
So we'll see more of that and combine that with an interface like Moxie that can create
real connection.
And now you have a therapist that can actually help a lot of the things I was talking about,
which is the reason why we started this company.
So I think in the next five years, we will see the movie Her become reality.
