But talking about how what Cassidy just said that like the loss that you think about it
right away, but the when you're not thinking about to lay down the road, you know, in studying
brain activity and mapping all these emotions, have you been able to chart and see that exact
activity and see people respond in that way before?
I don't know if there's that many studies with neuros, the neuroscience of pride that
really show that there's definitely studies in psychology that demonstrate that when you're
pride proud and you bring people along with you, you tend to be more admired, it tends
to increase group cohesion, there's pride in self proud and country pride in, you know,
family, all these different sources of pride, and the opposite pride is shame.
So pride is involved in kind of expanded posture, shame is involved in kind of a contracted
posture. And yeah, that's what psychology studies have really focused on more as the
expression of pride and the expression of shame as self conscious emotions. They're
really, really complex. So last week, we talked about desire. Desires in some ways very simple.
Pride involves many different brain systems. It's kind of a social salient aspect. There's
a hierarchy aspect, there's a reward aspect, there's a self consciousness aspect. And so
I think it's going to take us a while to really understand the neuroscience of pride.
Is it fair to say that that's been challenging in creating your maps and mapping emotion?
This has been one of the harder ones for you guys to nail down.
In some ways, yes, in some ways, no. So there's a very, very distinctive bodily expression
of pride, expanded posture, you know, raising your arms. And the world expert on that is
our guest from two weeks ago, Jess Tracy, who has done studies of Olympic athletes in
different countries and Paralympic athletes in different countries who are blind and shown
that whether you're blind or sighted, you form this expression. There's not something
that's learned visually, right? It's something that seems to be innate. And then you see
this in non human animals too, especially champs, thrillers, you see chest thumping. And so
there's very distinctive expressions to study that. And you see pride being the opposite
of shame, you see this around the world. So these things make it easier to to study pride
and shame. And Stacker has done many of those studies, I'm sure you can detail.
