Seems I'd be curious to hear Cassidy's thoughts about the place of humility in Olympic competitions, right?
It's almost as if as a collection of teammates, you're recognizing the wonder that you're facing, right?
What's fast about it and bringing each other along to face it?
Yeah, I mean, I think the team setting, probably any team setting in this face sports team setting is the perfect place to answer the questions that you're asking Danielle.
And, you know, once again, I have to have pride in myself stepping on the report.
I have to believe in myself and continue that kind of positive self-talk in my mind or, you know, it's going to take a bad turn for me.
But I also cannot believe that I am the only important person in the room because my teammates are going to have to perform also.
And if they lose their pride, if they lose their confidence, then our time change is not going to do well either.
And so I think it's important that you have to recognize both of those things in order to be a great team and have that culture.
And in the case when you're going up against, you know, the best in the world, I think, A, you have to have the pride to think that you can be the best.
And to think that you can be the best in the world, which is a very large statement, but also recognize that the world's really good at the stuff too.
And so I think part of international competition is having the humility to understand that everybody's really, really good.
And so we always, it was interesting the way that we were taught to frame competition.
It was Michael Durvay, the foreign psychologist who taught us that the origin of the work in peace is to strive together.
And so it's not necessarily I need to have so much pride in myself that we're going to destroy Brazil when we play them.
But let me have respect for what they do. And as they continue to get better and progress, they're going to push us to get better and progress too.
So it's almost like there's pride in ourselves, but also in kind of the entire process of competing at that level.
Thank you.
