I want to indulge.
I want to talk about psychedelics.
You know, I think of the summer of love.
I think of people, you know, blissed out of their minds and I'm curious to get your thoughts.
Is the love that one may experience in that state a byproduct of the chemistry of the
drug and therefore some way inauthentic or are the drugs allowing you access to something
that you may not have been able to get to otherwise, for whatever reason.
What can you tell me?
Are you asking DACA or the scientist or DACA or the mystic or all of the above?
I want to ask DACA in all of his every facet of DACA.
Give me the knowledge.
What do you got, sir?
What can you tell me?
Well, you know, I think it's important we talk about this because they're here.
Twenty five, thirty million Americans are trying, you know, one of the kinds of psychedelics
from psilocybin, LSD, to ayahuasca, to ketamine, etc.
And and they're good for certain conditions of suffering.
Veterans are very interested in this for as one example.
And, you know, part of it, I think it really is what Malina talked about earlier, which is
Agape, like you, you know, psychedelics aren't about desire, romantic love.
They're about this deep love of life, you know, living forms and fellow human beings.
You don't know.
And I, you know, the question of authenticity is a deep one.
And a lot of the real deep practitioners from the Dalai Lama to indigenous
Mayan traditions just see psychedelics as one root of many and really want us to be
thinking about how do we build a life that gets to Malina's characterization
earlier of like there are all these loves that I could fill my my day with.
Right. But I don't think it's inauthentic.
I think it shuts down your self-focused parts of the brain, opens you up to how marvelous
life is, you know, and how how core it is to love things.
So I think it's an exciting development in our culture.
I'm happy to talk about psychedelics.
The reason I say that is no, the reason the reason I actually think that's a powerful
question is dear friend, you know, dear friend and spiritual teacher, also literally the
person by which I met the love of my life.
He married my husband and I, but wronged us.
His whole journey is this arc.
And what's beautiful about his kind of hero's journey living this arc is that he started
out as this kind of decorated psychology professor and then ran into Tim Leary at Harvard
and started started working with psychedelics.
And then, you know, that part of the story is kind of infamous history.
But what's beautiful is when he talked about that journey, he talked about how expansive
it was and how he dropped himself.
And really, it's this inducement of awe and oceanic love.
And then what's so amazing about that is he felt that he went on many heroes journeys
with the medicine itself.
And then he got to the point where he'd done it so many times that he was like, you go up,
but you always come down.
And this is where it's the thing that shows you the map, but it doesn't take you to the
map maker.
And so the thing is, how do you get there on your own?
And so his shift from scientist to spiritual teacher was because he went to the he went
to India and seek of the map, like the real map and the real map makers and thought perhaps
like the kind of ancient science that was living there could give him some of those answers.
And when he went, he met his guru, he was, you know, had an experience with him that
completely melted his mind, his incredibly well formed, the loved mind of his.
And then he felt this experience of what he called unconditional love.
That is the spiritual love, this transcendent love.
And it just he lost himself in that love.
And then that became the teaching for the rest of his life.
So he was like, you know, the professor turned into this other teacher.
And what I think is beautiful about that is this idea that it's like, how do you get
to the place where you don't come down?
And so psychedelics will get you into that room, but they'll take you out.
So I think the practices of of kind of love and awareness and being like, I know by the
time I met him in the very last year of his life, it was like, you would sit in his
presence and it was just this oceanic wash of love where you kind of dissolved into it.
And that's where when I look at the way that you can be in the presence of that and it
can be its own force and you can feel it kind of writ large.
But then when you think about all of the descriptions that Melina was saying or the
description of the atomic unit of love, which is that bond, I think what's so powerful is
whatever way you slice it or feel it, whether it's through touch, whether it's through words
like the languages, the bus, an understanding and feeling love.
What I think is powerful is that all of that is in there.
And it's just, what's your doorway?
What's your place in the art?
How far are you going to take it?
Can you apply it to yourself and the people around you?
Can you practice that more?
How far out can you stretch it?
Like when Sharon Salisbury talks about her work, she's like, part as wide as the world.
And that's like so yummy.
And I love that there's a bridge between science and that vast mystery beyond it.
