Alan, what about you, man? How do you think we get there? Not that I want you to get us
to robot overlords, but between now, let's focus on self-driving cars and positive things.
In the next 20, 30 years, how do you think, what's missing? What jumps and leaps are we
going to make between now and then? What are you anticipating? What are you looking at?
To me, whether the robot overlords take over and do things that are damaging to the human
race is really a matter of what steps we take and in what order. I think starting with things like
Moxie is actually the best way to avoid this situation, this catastrophe, because you're giving
robots the beginning of social awareness and the beginnings of the ability to start to optimize for
human well-being for people's emotional responses. If you just gave them embodiment and an
understanding of the physical world and power over the physical world without that, without the
ability to understand people's needs, I think that's what opens the way to the scariest scenarios.
I think that's what opens the way to people being afraid of robots, because embodiment is a really
powerful thing. There's this really intelligent agent behind your Netflix recommendations,
but at the end of the day, it's just taking in user behavior and it's just outputting recommendations
and that's it. It has a very limited input and output space, but as soon as you introduce something
into the physical world, the input and output space both blow up. Not only is it perceiving
things, generally speaking, but it's also manipulating the real world and there's so
many different ways that it can accomplish whatever goals you give it if it's smart enough.
It's really important that you think about how do you control the means by which it accomplishes
its goals and make sure that it knows how to look out for human well-being, for human experience
along the way. I think that's something where Moxie and that sort of area being tackled first
is really, really promising and encouraging. If we can get that right, if we can get the
empathy problem right as a first step, then the robots that can actually do things like
operate heavy machinery seem less scary to me.
