Alan, I do want to get your thoughts on the brighter future of tomorrow and what's going
to happen.
But listening to Dacher talk and bringing up again all the work you guys have done, and
I'm wondering, you know, when it comes to the different ways in which emotions are processed
and exhibited by those with autism, is that data sort of siloed into its own space for
now, or is there a great value of including that in this sort of baseline of human emotion?
And I'd just love to hear your perspective on that and what you think.
I think it should be included.
I think that, you know, if autism is a spectrum, you know, and I think many other disorders
are spectrums as well, from healthy functioning to different kinds of, you know, eccentricities
or sort of dimensions, and, you know, so much of that hasn't been explored.
And I do think that data, when you say it hasn't been segregated, I think the way it's been
studied has been very largely segregated.
There's developmental psychology, there's emotion science, emotion science, you don't
study these patient populations, you don't typically study kids, and then there's intersections.
But typically if you're going to do a study, it's one or the other.
It's either a study of, you know, healthy functioning and variation, or it's a study
of one population and not of the overall neurodiversity, which actually probably would require a lot
more data, right?
And so I think one of the really exciting directions for the future is to study neurodiversity
in more of a data-driven way, not focus on sort of diagnostic categories being your prior,
but focusing on symptom dimensions being extracted from data and understanding which
dimensions are actually things you care about, which dimensions are causing people, negative
emotions, stress, tantrums, all those things, and working backwards from there to solve
those issues.
And then you have, you know, what are the critical moments that reveal those dimensions
in life?
And how can we gather data at that critical time?
So we lower the lift on finding the right, because essentially what the doctor is doing
when the diagnosis in a patient is a form of data process.
That's pretty much it.
And you can lower the, and, you know, that session is very expensive.
It's a very expensive form of data processing.
And so the fundamental problem is to make the data processing cheaper, right?
Yeah.
Like what Dennis work is heading for, but I think we need that in every dimension of
clinical care.
So I think that it's really important to find what is the sort of lightest way intervention
to gather data, and what is the right time to do it, and how do you process that data?
I think a lot of that could potentially be working backwards from where do we experience
the most negative emotions, and then conveniently be alerted to sort of document that and then
find the root cause.
