I shouldn't pretend that it's a conscious friend.
I think that's where it's really like the way that we have human connections, we, we,
we connect to somebody else being someone into the conscious experience and an AI should
never impersonate that, right?
I'm just going to facilitate that.
I really like the word sensing and senses is kind of like the, the locus of where I
think a lot of innovations need to happen here.
So sensing like the ability for technology that can better sense me or where I am or
what I'm feeling and, and respond intuitively, you know, the simplest example is like, hey,
if I whisper to Siri, should Siri whisper back?
Probably.
It probably says something, right?
Like, yeah, I'm trying to be quiet right now.
So don't, don't shout at me, right?
To much more sophisticated forms of sensing through, you know, my ability to sense and
perceive what's going on, you know, how much information is trapped in just even the simple
example of zoom calls and who talks and who doesn't talk and who talks over people and
who, you know, right?
Like, there's so much learning we can get that still really hasn't been, I think, pulled
and we can kind of develop better, better senses.
And I think the last point is, you know, I'm really keen on obviously giving D Scouts
a mission, like how can technology also help to strengthen, not to replace our human bonds,
but to strengthen them, you know, looking to actually make us better friends and better
coworkers and better listeners.
I think there's a lot of promise there.
And I think there is unavoidable to Alan's points that there will be more technology
mediation in our lives, right?
I think so much of it is about pre-nexting people.
I think a lot of companies want to do this.
And I think that the fact that we all have this goal is really, it's a shared goal, right?
It's about expanding on the connections that you have.
And the way that AI can facilitate that is huge.
Right now, basically, if you open up an app, like a social media app, it's showing you
who you should interact with right now.
So it really is curating our interactions already and doing a better job of that, being
more into what you're going for in the present moment, I think this could expand on your friendship.
You can have more friends and not less.
