You get onto this track in 1809, which it doesn't sound like that long ago, but it really is.
It's another planet.
At that time, what were some of the red flags that you were seeing that said to you, shine
a light on this?
Let's start a conversation now.
This is big where this is going to be big.
Never mind the fact that you couldn't predict it.
Very question.
I think some of it was in syncs at the time.
I was seeing the trend in me and noticing the trend in other people.
I was trying to decipher or see if I can put together these two really strong interests
I had.
One was in the power of technology and seeing how it opened up channels of communication
and channels of information that you cannot deny.
The fact that you can now have access to all these videos and all these websites and all
these apps, there's incredible information now at our fingertips.
If somebody grew up in a small town in West Texas, if I had the internet, wow, I could
learn so much.
There's that part of technology that I love.
Then I also loved silence and being in nature and being in quiet and understanding myself.
I would be with my spiritual friends.
It would be in this domain or be with my tech friends.
There must be a group of people who's interested in both, but I can't really find them.
There must be some people who are interested in the intersection of those two.
I think I just sense at the time that there was no doubt that the external technologies
of our age were going to get faster and cooler and niftier and more amazing.
What was uncertain and it was the real question of our time would be whether the internal
technologies of compassion, wisdom, mindfulness, those grow as this grew or as this grew, would
this stifle this?
I really felt that compassion is the glue that keeps the culture together.
All this billions of dollars are going into how to increase this and this is getting less
and less attention.
I felt it was very compelled to do my part to see if we could lift up this.
It is really important for me to not do it in a divisive way.
When we did our first conferences, we invited the CEOs of Twitter and Facebook and whatever
companies because we're like, join the conversation with us.
This isn't about drop out, tune out, get rid of this, but there's a danger.
The algorithms are set up to create more and more engagement.
That can have some positive benefits, but also has some really negative benefits.
Who's looking out for that other side?
Who's looking out for our well-being?
