It's interesting what you were saying, Kelly, about people kind of prioritize the wrong dimensions,
the wrong criteria, and it definitely confirms what's been known in the psychology literature
that if you follow couples for many years, and not many people have done this, but famously
it was done by Dominant Levinson in the 70s and 80s, who would literally follow married
couples for years at a time, you find that 80% of the conflicts between the couples that occur
in year five were present in the first year. And so what that really indicates is that there's
some level of incompatibility between these people, and they've maybe chosen based on the
wrong criteria. But then I'm curious, what are the right criteria? What do you look for in a
successful couple that you think is going to stay together and not have conflicts for a long
period of time? Yeah, I love the research that the Gottmans have done, and everything that's
come out of the Love Lab, I think that they've actually said that 67% of problems are not
solvable. So you ultimately have to decide with what you're willing to live with. And so it is
quite interesting to think through what qualities make a great partner. And I think it really is
dependent on what people are looking for in terms of their relationship. But we do know that, of
course, there are certain qualities that make a relationship easier than others. So for instance,
your ability to be able to emotionally regulate your communication skills, whether you participate
in a relationship with mutuality, where both people's needs are equally important in the
relationship, and things like that. Fascinating, yeah. I mean, when you talk about the tangible
things, sort of the motion regulation, like these things seem testable, to what extent do you think
it's just intangible? Like, to what extent is there just some element of human intuition that's
hard to really put on paper? Yeah, so I think that there is a way to, in some ways, to operationalize
that. And that's what our matchmakers gather. And that's kind of the data that we use behind our
matchmaking process, where we take the tangibles, and we integrate that with the intangibles to
ultimately find those better connections.
