Um, in the same way that, you know, there's a ritual to just every cycle in our lives
of the week, um, weekend, every time we get to the weekend, it's like, you have a feeling
every time you're getting ready for, like the week to start on Monday, there's a certain
feeling of time passing and that kind of cyclical sense, um, there's like a monthly rhythm,
which is not really as important, but with the holidays that align us to is a seasonal
rhythm that I think taps into something very biological and very primal, um, and, uh, remind
us of this long view, um, it has to do with, you know, at least if you're in the normal
northern hemisphere and it's the winter, uh, it has to do with sort of, um, reflecting
on, uh, everything that you've kind of brought together and, uh, everyone kind of huddling
in a room, uh, you know, family getting together for the winter, you've sort of, you know,
food preserves, you're just kind of relaxing. There's not much to do. You don't want to
go out and expose yourself to weather. I think there's something very primal that, that,
that holiday sits on top of that actually is part of our biology, um, that we can also
talk about there.
Well, that's, that's fascinating because I'm thinking about exactly that. Um, while I'm
listening to you guys, because I, you know, doing some research for this and just every
year you learn a little bit more about the holidays than you did the year past. And,
uh, one of the things I was like, Oh wow. So like Christmas, as we know it, up until
like the late 18th, 18th century or 18, I can't remember, but it was like for a while,
it was debauchery. It wasn't anything like this. It was apps. So I'm like, okay, so
when, because we need this annual catharsis, this sounds like, let's take the holidays
out of it for a second. All the things we're talking about just sound like really important
steps to go through and like the human experience. And so I'm wondering prior to the
garland and, and, and the specials and the animated reindeer and all that, was this a
pattern that we had where we like once a year, we all kind of took stock of things and we
all appreciated what we had. And that may be a question outside of the scope of this
podcast, but I was wondering, I mean, to hear you say that we're aligned all these things.
It's, uh, it's fascinating to me that this is just something, it's a rhythm that we're
already kind of in, we're predisposed for.
Well, clearly, you know, I mean, that's interesting, right? Like, you know, and we can't forget
like the seasons are changing during the winter holidays, the light is changing,
temperatures changing in the anthropological study of food celebrations, which is one of
the oldest kinds of celebration upon which culture builds out of probably certain kinds
of religions. You would grow your hands, you know, wherever you were in, in, you know,
New Guinea or the like, harvest would come, you'd have a week of food sharing, gratitude,
ritual music, you know, and, and so I think Alan's on to something that we should be thinking
about, which is there are these kind of earlier predecessors to these moments that bring to
get, bring us together in these, these holidays.
