What's the future of user research look like?
What's something really exciting on the horizon?
I think it looks a lot like the sorts of work that I think Alan's doing.
Hopefully we're going to be working on some of that together, right?
But I do think that you're, you know, what you're going to really see is, I think this
incredible growth in our ability to take what is historically very qualitative data and
to divine the signal from it more efficiently.
And what that will allow us to get away from is kind of these, as I kind of talked about
this, like walk through the front door type of research, you know, are you engaged in
your work?
Five.
Highly engaged.
One.
Not at all engaged.
Do you even know?
Do you know the answer to that?
Right.
Really?
Right?
It's true.
It's true.
Yeah.
Right now?
I'm answering it certainly.
Yeah.
Exactly.
In this moment or before?
Like when?
What do you mean?
Yeah.
I do see a lot of promise in being able to take more kind of qualitative sorts of inputs
and unstructured inputs and to make meaningful sense out of those, I think has great promise
in terms of achieving our goals and missions and also just, you know, making better things
for humans.
I mean, my thought's exactly, and I hope that happens in the academic field of psychology
too.
I mean, in order to make questions quantitative, we funnel people into these really simplistic
paradigms.
That's historically like radio button kinds of questions.
And you wouldn't administer those kinds of questions to a friend if you were asking how
they were doing.
Right?
You wouldn't get very much information about what's going to, like you really rely on conversation
and kind of dialectical methods.
And I think that scaling that is going to be really critical.
Scaling user research is going to be critical.
I think there needs to be a lot more user research and empowering user researchers to
basically have those kinds of conversations that they have one-on-one with users, but
have an AI facilitate that conversation or part of that conversation.
Right?
Or, and perhaps some of that data is not, you know, never leaves the user's device.
And the learning that you get, a lot of, maybe through federated analytics, and you're quantifying
a lot of the things that would have been qualitative before.
But, you know, this is just the opposite of basically trying to make a question quantitative
by simplifying how you measure something.
Instead, it's like taking the way you would have measured it anyway and scaling that,
which is, I think, only possible if you can really quantify human emotional behavior,
if you can quantify not just what people are saying, but the way they're saying it, use
natural language understanding methods that are attuned to context and to emotion and
ask questions back.
So, you know, a survey doesn't ask questions back.
You know, I think 90% of the information you get about how somebody is feeling is, you know,
the follow-up questions that you ask after they give you the first answer.
And so it really needs to be like that.
And I think in order to ask the right follow-up questions, you need to understand somebody's
tone so much as, you know, how are you doing?
Oh, I'm doing OK.
Right?
And like, you wouldn't know it unless you understood the tone behind that.
Just be, I'm doing OK.
It doesn't give you very much.
Right.
So, yeah, I 100% agree.
I think that is the future.
