If it's so contentious, if there's this endless debate over the significance in purpose of
expressions, why is that where the emotion science field has hung its hat?
Why set up camp on facial expressions?
I think that it's just, you have this historical legacy, it's always been debated.
So that precedent justifies publications about more debate.
I think a lot of the field is not concerned too much about the debate and is measuring
expression and advancing in different ways.
There are a lot of labs that are keeping up the work.
And so I think that it has this historical legacy that we've talked about.
And then it's splashy to critique Ekman, who became very well-known, one of the most well-known
psychologists at a television show based on him, his life, etc., so it's a way to gain
prominence.
Yeah, I would also add, I think that it has a lot to do with the medium through which
science is disseminated.
The fact that, especially in the old days, you could not send a recording, it was in
the journal article, how would they possibly write about sound?
Now we have the internet, but even so, it's difficult.
And so there were a lot of books where there were diagrams of the face and there was kind
of a pseudo-science of physiognomy about your face shape, indicate your personality,
just an obsession with the face, and Darwin was able to sketch out facial expressions
in man and animals.
He talks about sound, he talks about vocalizations, but he can't do it with the same level of
detail.
You can't actually show examples.
And so I think that's true in other areas of science as well.
I think there's been an obsession with more visual stuff than audio stuff.
And that's a shame, and I think that's changing.
I mean, we have this study with vocal expressions where we have this interactive map that we
sent around, and you can play through all the different vocal expressions.
And suddenly, a lot of people are a lot more interested in vocal expressions.
So we'll see where that goes.
I think we're headed in a good direction.
