What does the next step, what is the good version of our future look like?
What is going to happen in the next five years as this is becoming more part of things?
What are the breakthroughs we're hoping for?
We're excited to see.
I mean, I'm an AI person, so I'll talk about technology, but it's better.
In the AI space right now, there's basically a tendency toward reinforcement learning.
It's sort of inspired by behaviorism, and then they kind of shift to cognitivism, where
people were still doing reinforcement learning.
They were thinking about how do entities learn from reward to engage in certain actions
in order to facilitate more reward.
And then the cognitivists were like, well, there's complex computational architectures
that underlie what you've actually learned.
Let's think about what those architectures are.
And that's basically a state of AI, it's just like we have architectures that learn.
And I think the big, what's really missing is the social-effective part.
And so if we can build social-effective learning into AI and have AI agents that not only learn
from some really, really narrow objective, but brought in and out, and they learn from
what other people learn, and they learn from what other people makes other people happy
and what makes other people interested, and they learn to serve our objectives in that way,
I think that's happening very soon.
Then we'll be able to have a really, really cool Clippy character.
Clippy was out of its time.
Clippy didn't really learn anything, right, just had some pre-program bits,
but imagine it could learn everything.
And you could tell Clippy, hey, you know, make sure that this email looks good,
you know, and it does what I'm trying to do with this email.
And then Clippy could be like, ah, maybe you could change that wording over here.
Thank you, Clippy.
What a good dream.
All right, make me some recommendations for, you know, what I should do on vacation.
Clippy could know us really well and be that guide.
So I think that that's something that's going to happen.
