Any form of visual art. I'm going to go animation. All right. What are the tools they use to
tell that story? There's a million. For me, one of the most important of all, the facial
expressions. What am I missing with this argument when someone says to me that there is no correlation?
Yeah, you know, historically, sometimes in areas of science, there are our debates that
are often independent of the data, right? And the meaning of expression has been debated
since Charles Darwin in 1872. And it ebbs and flows. And it goes from the 1950s. People
believe that expression didn't mean anything. Ekman, it means a lot. Now there's a counter
to Ekman. And then, you know, the work that Alan and I have done for 15, 20 years reveals
the expressions mean a lot. I'll note just a couple of things. Those are non-peer reviews
statements. The article that some of those statements are based on in the press is non-peer
review. That's really important for science. In point of fact, and you know, this is just
what we have to do as scientists, which is the actual correlation when you look at four
or five emotions and subjective feeling is about point two point two five, which means
it's stronger than 76% of what we call the effects, the causal effects of manipulations
in social psychology. So it's real. And for whatever reason, through sociological processes
of how they wanted to disseminate this idea, they made popular this idea that it doesn't
correlate with experience. And there are a ton of other problems with that work. The broader
point that you're making that is fundamental, which is that the paper non-peer review that
is the basis of that journalistic, you know, outcropping, if you will, was really about
facial muscle movements for four or five emotions. Anger, sad, fear, disgust, happy. We already
know that there are about 10 different displays of positive emotion. It's not happy. That's
been published by peer review science. And then more importantly, and this is where the
paper is useful is that, yeah, there's way more to expression than just facial muscle
movements. In fact, Darwin, about half of his observations in the expression of emotion
in man and animals are not about expressions at all, facial expressions. They're about
voice, body, gaze, touch, gesture, patterns of blush and tearing, how you breathe, how
you move your hands, right? And so that is a tiny slice of the story, misinterpreted.
And Alan's done a lot of great work to, to, I think, set the course right. It's been misinterpreted
and then overextended. And so hopefully our field will get back to what is, what is sensible
and true.
