What do you see in the next 10 years?
Stuff like this, this kind of technology, what's the biggest impact you foresee?
You hope to see.
Amelia said it, which was, you know, the idea of being able to take measures and predict
treatment efficacy is huge.
And I agree it needs to be research-driven.
We're also starting from a research-driven approach and empowering, hopefully, companies
like Athenae to do that research as well.
But yeah, I would go even further, which is to say, you know, at the end of the day, these
diagnostic categories are useful because they capture things that are metrics of well-being,
right?
They're like, where are we feeling good from day to day?
Are we sleeping well?
Like all these things.
But we could, in principle, take these sort of objective proxies of well-being and subjective
measures and have this kind of multi-dimensional space as an output that we want to track.
And then as an input, have all of the different measures that we have available, whether it's
from somebody playing a game or during a clinical interview or, you know, talking to a digital
assistant like you were saying, and say, let's figure out what's going to help you.
I think is the future, rather than creating all of these different kind of categories
and discretizations.
And you know, at the end of the day, you want to know, like, okay, if I take this chemical,
or if I go into therapy, or if I engage in some new practice like meditation, or if I
go out into nature, you know, how is this going to affect my well-being and mental health
as included in well-being?
And having that broader, more holistic view, I think is going to be really helpful, especially
at a moment where we're seeing people in the mental health system get diagnosed with tons
of different things, taking tons of different drugs, right?
And that's, it's so contrary to how you would think about it if you were thinking of all
of these well-being metrics as related and saying, okay, one drug can, for somebody who's
depressed and also shows symptoms of anxiety, there's something there for you.
It's not about taking anxiety drugs and depression drugs, it's just the craziest idea that we
have adopted.
And so thinking about all of these things as interrelated and holistic and that can be
optimized together, I think, I think there's a way that in 10 years, the mental health
system could look completely different if we're able to adopt that effectively.
