If you look another 20 years ahead, what do you hope to see happen?
I think increasingly these technologies will have our personal assistant that talks to
us and knows a lot about our needs and plans our vacation and makes a lot of things simple.
It will kind of work and we'll even have a kind of relationship with that character.
And then the question is hopefully that makes us a better person.
All right.
Yeah.
There's the big question.
It's a challenge.
Yeah.
Again, what do we do with all this technology once we have it?
There's no wrong answer to that question, obviously.
The only thing to do is, right, I'm asking you to look 20, I'm asking you to look multiple
decades.
And we started this off by talking about the breakthroughs that you didn't see coming
and couldn't have it dissipated, right?
Alan, I've asked you so many times, I love that you come up with a relatively new answer
each time.
Go ahead and give it a shot.
What do you think?
It's a new context each time.
I mean, in this context, I really agree with what John was saying, which is that in the
future, if we're going to have AI that does what we want, it's going to have to be able
to talk to us.
And there's maybe some differing opinions on this.
I know Elon Musk wants to build neural interfaces, so we don't have to talk to the AI, but I
don't see that as being anywhere in the near future, given my understanding of the brain
or lack thereof or anybody's lack of understanding of most of how the brain works.
Yeah, I think we understand, we're much more likely to understand how conversation works
than how to understand the brain well enough to do that.
The other possibility that people might argue for is, oh, everyone's just going to learn
to program, rather than just like, well, maybe we could have some primary school education
on programming and then everyone's going to learn prompt engineering, but I just don't
think that's going to work when it comes to getting AI to understand us, because at the
end of the day, conversation and how we communicate as humans is the thing that persists over
time, and the way that people program these AI changes every year.
The idea of prompt engineering wasn't a thing last year, so I think we have to have the
AI meet us where we're at, and that's the only way that there's going to be a persistent
solution to this problem of communicating our needs.
