Well, I mean, so much of like, of, of where graphics is going is it's not just sculpting
an environment, but actually simulating something and creating a kind of physics simulator of
the world. And that is the next step to unlocking the human imagination. We want to be able to
imagine things and create them, right? But I think what's really missing, even once you have a
physics simulation is you don't have a social simulation, you know, psychological simulation.
But what you kind of want is to be able to sketch a character and have that character come alive.
You want to be able to create a character from a storyboard and then be able to give it direction,
the way you give direction to an actor. You know, when you're entering this, seeing through it in a
way that conveys that the character is sad and grieving about this and everything, you know,
all of our movements are imbued with emotion, like every, every, the way that we walk, the way
that we hold ourselves together, how we sit down, how we sort of move objects around in our
vicinity, and of course our expressions and our voice. And I think actors are brilliant at capturing
all of that. And I think that's what really gives characters authenticity and makes us want to,
whatever that's, like, we see that nuance and emotional behavior, and it's what makes us feel
like we're in this character's shoes and feel the conflicts. And I think if AI is going to generate
characters that have that effect, it needs to be able to capture all of those nuances of how
people move to the world and express their emotions. I think we're getting there. I mean, I think,
yeah, I think there's a lot of, you know, if I was to dial back how many times digital actors have
been used in feature films, people would be surprised how long it's been. You know, it's easier
to use a digital double for a challenging scene, close-ups in the beginning. But we're seeing,
you know, Benjamin Button was a huge milestone and was main character that was, you know, CG
driven, stuff like that. More and more, you know, we've seen Gemini Man, we've seen, you know, look
at the Irishman, the work that was done on that. You know, I mean, all of those characters in there
were CG. They were driven by the emotions that were trained into the computer that were then
applied to the 3D model. And so you believed it was a Dinearo or Pecini that we're talking. But if
you strip it back, it was a 3D animated model that was driven by AI learnings over thousands and
thousands of clips and images of that actor in different scenarios, combined with what that actor
was to be acting like in that film. So it wasn't just a young Dinearo, it was the character in
the film, dialed younger, through the acting, incredible work on those things. So we are seeing
it take place. But, you know, will we get to the point where you can just sit down on a blank
canvas and say, I want this kind of an actor, this kind of an actor. Yeah, it won't be far. I mean,
it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
