Sometimes when I have people tell me what they think Darwin thought, I kind of think
of like, like the dinosaurs, like, well, we know what they look like, but we don't because
we weren't there when they were there.
We'll never really know.
It's the best guess.
Is this something that's forever going to be debatable?
Or can you say as someone who's looked into a lot of them, read a lot of them, not all
of the texts, that there is enough there for us to have a pretty solid idea of what
he thought?
Yeah.
I think, you know, first of all, you know, well, Darwin was an incredible letter writer
and autobiographer and correspondent and had, you know, different notebooks that led to
the expression of emotion in men and animals.
So it is, they're all available online and we could provide that link so you can find
out what he said.
More specifically, the expression of emotion in men and animals is, I think the, there's
no doubt in human history, it is the most precise nuanced description of 59 states,
right?
59 mental states or physical mental states in which he describes very specific behaviors
from multiple kinds of data that co-vary with those states.
So it, you know, you can go right to what Darwin said and see how he differentiates
horror from terror, anger from rage, different kinds of love, et cetera.
So it's, that is, you know, then you could contest what the words mean, sympathy meant
something a little bit different in Victorian England than it may mean today, et cetera.
Love, it means something a little bit different.
So you can resolve these issues.
And on that, it is clear throughout the expression of emotion in men and animals, Darwin talks
about what we know today both in the non-human signaling literature, the human signaling
literature, that these expressions help us know other people's mental states and coordinate
social interactions.
They help rivals solve conflicts, they help parents connect to their children, they help
people flirt with each other, et cetera.
And then the second thing, you know, your first point about essences is not Darwin.
It is just that is assuming that Paul Ekman's photos, and it'd be worth our listeners looking
at those photos, because those are in some sense what you might think of as essences,
static photos of very specific facial muscle movements.
That wasn't Darwin.
That was Paul Ekman.
He hadn't read Darwin when he went and did that research, right?
So people, the contemporary critique of Darwin is mistaking those photos from Darwin, because
what Darwin writes about is what Alan has discovered in, and every study of expression
has discovered is within a category you have a lot of variation, right?
In pride, you have all these different forms of pride, hands go up or they don't, the
chest is up, you sneer with contempt or not, whatever it is.
And so, you know, those are just regrettable misinterpretations.
And it's back to this point, you know, there's this science of emotion that's making a lot
of progress, and then these theoretical disputes that tend to kind of cycle and flow in the
swing of a pendulum.
