Why do we think that pride is so deeply baked into the fibers of our being?
Yeah, you know, and, and I love Danielle and Cassidy's introduction as we think about pride
together. It's, it's one of these complicated emotions. It's a type of right. How do we misuse
it? How does it, how does it benefit ourselves and the collectives that we're part of? And that
really is the answer that we're arriving at about why pride, right? Which is a lot of people don't
like believing this or, or really fail to see this, but we fold in the hierarchies in our social
lives. There are hierarchies for preschoolers and grammar schoolers, of course middle schoolers,
once we enter in the workplace. It's just a sort of a heuristic way in which we organize ourselves,
we have differences in rank, almost in every context around the world. And you need mechanisms
that signal to each other like this is my place, right? Cassidy's a better volleyball player than
me. I'll defer to her on the volleyball court, probably most other places as well. And, you know,
that's how we collaborate. And that's what pride does, right? Pride is this really subtle,
as Alan was saying, this emotion by which we signal to other people, right? I know how to do
things well here. I have elevated status, follow me, imitate me. And there are studies that show,
we'll imitate people who are showing pride. And then the real problems arise. So it helps us
sort of keep hierarchy solid in the groups that we belong to. And then the real difficulties arise
with what Jess Tracy has called hubristic pride. And, you know, Cassidy's description of pride
was so interesting. And this is where our emotions are really fascinating, which is what are they
about, right? And her experience of pride was like, am I growing? Did I did I do things well on the
court? Did I sort of compliment my teammates? But hubristic pride is, am I better than everybody?
Am I naturally gifted at this? Those are sort of the thoughts that run through
that experience. And that's where trouble arises.
