W. D. Ross
THE RIGHT AND
THE GOOD
Edited by
Philip Stratton-Lake
CLARENDON PRESS • OXFORD

This book has been printed digitally and produced in a standard specification
in order to ensure its continuing availability
OXFORD
UNIVERSITY PRBSS
Great Clarendon Street, Oxford 0X2 6DP
Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford.
It furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship,
and education by publishing worldwide in
Oxford New York
Auckland Cape Town Dar es Salaam Hong Kong Karachi
Kuala Lutnpm Madrid Melbourne Mexico City Nairobi
New Delhi Shanghai Taipei Toronto
With offices in
Argentina Austria Brazil Chile Czech Republic France Greece
Guatemala Hungary Italy Japan South Korea Poland Portugal
Singapore Switzerland Thailand Turkey Ukraine Vietnam
Oxford is a registered trade mark of Oxford University Press
in the UK and in certain other countries
Published in the United States
by Oxford University Press Inc., New York
© Oxford University Press 1930, 2002
The moral rights of the author have been asserted
Database right Oxford University Press (maker)
Reprinted 2007
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means,
without the prior permission in writing of Oxford University Press,
or as expressly permitted by law, or under terms agreed with the appropriate
reprographics rights organization. Enquiries concerning reproduction
outside the scope of the above should be sent to the Rights Department,
Oxford University Press, at the address above
You must not circulate this book in any other binding or cover
And you must impose this same condition on any acquirer
ISBN 978-0-19-925264-0

II
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
on the one hand and their opponents on the other is not
whether 'right' means 'productive of so and so'; for it cannot
with any plausibility be maintained that it does. The point at
issue is that to which we now pass, viz. whether there is any
general character which makes right acts right, and if so, what
it is. Among the main historical attempts to state a single
characteristic of all right actions which is the foundation of their
lightness are those made by egoism and utilitarianism. But I
do not propose to discuss these, not because the subject is un-
important, but because it has been dealt with so often and
so well already, and because there has come to be so much
agreement among moral philosophers that neither of these
theories is satisfactory. A much more attractive theory has been
put forward by Professor Moore: that what makes actions
right is that they are productive of more good than could have
been produced by any other action open to the agent.1
This theory is in fact the culmination of all the attempts to
base tightness on productivity of some sort of result. The
first form this attempt takes is the attempt to base tightness on
conduciveness to the advantage or pleasure of the agent. This
theory comes to grief over the fact, which stares us in the face,
that a great part of duty consists in an observance of the rights
and a furtherance of the interests of others, whatever the cost to
ourselves may be. Plato and others may be right in holding
that a regard for the rights of others never in the long run
involves a loss of happiness for the agent, that 'the just life
profits a man*. But this, even if true, is irrelevant to the right-
ness of the act. As soon as a man does an action because he
thinks he will promote his own interests thereby, he is acting
not from a sense of its Tightness but from self-interest.
1 I take the theory which, as I have tried to show, seems to be put forward in Ethics
rather than the earlier and less plausible theory put forward in Pruttipis Ethkn. For
the difference, cf, my pp. 8-n.
T 
HE real point at issue between hedonism and utilitafianism
1
2

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
17
To the egoistic theory hedonistic utilitarianism supplies a
much-needed amendment. It points out correctly that the fact
that a certain pleasure will be enjoyed by the agent is no reason
why he ought to bring it into being rather than an equal or
greater pleasure to be enjoyed by another, though, human
nature being what it is, it makes it not unlikely that he will try
to bring it into being. But hedonistic utilitarianism in its turn
needs a correction. On reflection it seems clear that pleasure
is not the only thing in life that we think good in itself, that
for instance we think the possession of a good character, or an
intelligent understanding of the world, as good or better. A
great advance is made by the substitution of "productive of
the greatest good* for 'productive of the greatest pleasure'.
Not only is this theory more attractive than hedonistic
utilitarianism, but its logical relation to that theory is such that
the latter could not be true unless it were true, while it might
be true though hedonistic utilitarianism were not. It is in fact
one of the logical bases of hedonistic utilitarianism. For the
view that what produces the maximum pleasure is right has for
its bases the views (i) that what produces the maximum good
is right, and (2) that pleasure is the only thing good in itself.
If they were not assuming that what produces the maximum
good is right, the utilitarians* attempt to show that pleasure is
the only thing good in itself, which is in fact the point they
take most pains to establish, would have been quite irrelevant
to their attempt to prove that only what produces the maximum
pleasure is right. If, therefore, it can be shown that productivity
of the maximum good is not what makes all right actions right,
we shall a fortiori have refuted hedonistic utilitarianism.
When a plain man fulfils a promise because he thinks he
ought to do so, it seems clear that he does so with no thought
of its total consequences, still less with any opinion that these
are likely to be the best possible. He thinks in fact much more
of the past than of the future. What makes him think it right
to act in a certain way is the fact that he has promised to do so
—that and, usually, nothing more. That his act will produce the
best possible consequences is not his reason for calling it right.
What lends colour to the theory we are examining, then, is not
3
4
5

ig 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
the actions (which form probably a great majority of our
actions) in which some such reflection as 'I have promised' is
the only reason we give ourselves for thinking a certain action
right, but the exceptional cases in which the consequences of
fulfilling a promise (for instance) would be so disastrous to
others that we judge it right not to do so. It must of course be
admitted that such cases exist. If I have promised to meet a
friend at a particular time for some trivial purpose, I should
certainly think myself justified in breaking my engagement if
by doing so I could prevent a serious accident or bring, relief
to the victims of one. And the supporters of the view we are
examining hold that my thinking so is due to my thinking that
I shall bring more good into existence by the one action than
by the other, A different account may, however, be given of
the matter, an account which will, I believe, show itself to be
the true one. It may be said that besides the duty of fulfilling
promises I have and recognize a duty of relieving distress,1 and
that when I think it right to do the latter at the cost of not doing
the former, it is not because I think I shall produce more good
thereby but because I think it the duty which is in the circum-
stances more of a duty. This account surely corresponds much
more closely with what we really think in such a situation. If,
so far as I can see, I could bring equal amounts of good into
being by fulfilling my promise and by helping some one to
whom I had made no promise, I should not hesitate to regard
the former as my duty. Yet on the view that what is right is
right because it is productive of the most good I should not so
regard 5t.
There are two theories, each in its way simple, that offer a
solution of such cases of conscience. One is the view of Kant,
that there are certain duties of perfect obligation, such as those
of fulfilling promises, of paying debts, of telling the truth,
which admit of no exception whatever in favour of duties of
imperfect obligation, such as that of relieving distress. The
other is the view of, for instance, Professor Moore and Dr.
Rashdall, that there is only the duty of producing good, and
1 These are not strictly speaking duties, but things that tend to be our duly, or
prima-facie duties. Cf, pp. 19-10.
5

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
19
that all 'conflicts of duties* shoukTbe resolved by asking *by
which action will most good be produced?' But it is more
important that our theory fit the facts than that it be simple,
and the account we have given above corresponds (it seems to
me) better than either of the simpler theories with what we
really think, viz, that normally promise-keeping, for example,
should come before benevolence, but that when and only when
the good to be produced by the benevolent act is very great
and the promise comparatively trivial, the act of benevolence
becomes our duty.
In fact the theory of'ideal utilitarianism*, if I may for brevity
refer so to the theory of Professor Moore, seems to simplify
unduly our relations to our fellows. It says, in effect, that the
only morally significant relation in which my neighbours stand
to me is that of being possible beneficiaries by my action,1
They do stand in this relation to me, and this relation is morally
significant. But they may also stand to me in the relation of
promisee to promiser, of creditor to debtor, of wife to husband,
of child to parent, of friend to friend, of fellow countryman
to fellow countryman, and the like; and each of these relations
is the foundation of a prima facie duty, which is more or less
incumbent on rne according to the circumstances of the case.
When I am in a situation, as perhaps I always am, in which
more than one of these prima facie duties is incumbent on me,
what I have to do is to study the situation as fully as I can until
I form the considered opinion (it is never more) that in the
circumstances one of them is more incumbent than any other;
then I am bound to think that to do this pritna facie duty is my
duty sans phrase in the situation,
I suggest *prima facie duty* or 'conditional duty* as a brief
way of referring to the characteristic (quite distinct from that
of being a duty proper) which an act has, in virtue of being of
a certain kind (e.g. the keeping of a promise), of being an act
which would be a duty proper if it were not at the same time
of another kind which is morally significant. Whether an act
1 Some will think it, apart from other considerations, a sufficient refutation of this
view to point out that I also stand in that relation to myself, so that for this view the
distinction of oneself from others is morally insignificant.
6
7

20 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
is a duty proper or actual duty depends on all the morally
significant kinds it is an instance of. The phrase * prima facie
duty* must be apologized for, since (i) it suggests that what we
are speaking of is a certain kind of duty, whereas it is in fact
not a duty, but something related in a special way to duty.
Strictly speaking, we want not a phrase in which duty is quali-
fied by an adjective, but a separate noun, (2) ' Prima'facie sug-
gests that one is speaking only of an appearance which a moral
situation presents at first sight, and which may turn out to be
illusory; whereas what I am speaking of is an objective fact
involved in the nature of the situation, or more strictly in an
element of its nature, though not, as duty proper does, arising
from its whole nature. * I can, howeveiythink of no term which
fully meets the case. 'Claim* has been suggested by Professor
Prichard. The word 'claim* has the advantage of being quite
& familiar one in this connexion, and it seems to cover much of
the ground. It wouldbe quite natural to say, *a person to whom
I have made a promise has a claim on me', and also, *a person
whose distress I could relieve (at the cost of breaking the
promise) has a claim on me". But (i) while 'claim1 is appro-
priate from their point of view, we want a word to express the
corresponding fact from the agent's point of view—the fact
of his being subject to claims that can be made against him;
and ordinary language provides us with no such correlative to
'claim*. And (2) (what is more important) 'claim' seems in-
evitably to suggest two persons, one of whom might make a
claim on the other; and while this covers the ground of social
duty, it is inappropriate in the case of that important part of
duty which is the duty of cultivating a certain kind of character
in oneself. It would be artificial, I think, and at any rate meta-
phorical, to say that one's character has a claim on oneself. *
There is nothing arbitrary about these prima facie duties.
Each rests on a definite circumstance which cannot seriously be
held to be without moral significance. Of prima facie duties
I suggest, without claiming completeness or finality for it, the
following division,1
* I should make it plain at this stage that I am assuming the correctness of some of
our main convictions as to prima facie duties, or, more strictly, am claiming that we
8
9

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
11
(i) Some duties rest on previous acts of my own. These
duties seem to include two kinds, (a) those resting on a promise
or what may fairly be called an implicit promise, such as the
implicit undertaking not to tell lies which seems to be implied
in the act of entering into conversation (at any rate by civilized
men), or of writing books that purport to be history and not
fiction. These may be called the duties of fidelity, (A) Those
resting on a previous wrongful act. These may be called the
duties of reparation. (2) Some rest on previous acts of other
men, ie, services done by them to me. These may be loosely
described as the duties of gratitude.1 (3) Some rest on the fact
or possibility of a distribution of pleasure or happiness (or of
the means thereto) which is not in accordance with the merit
of the persons concerned; in such cases there arises a duty to
upset or prevent such a distribution. These are the duties of
justice. (4) Some rest on the mere fact that there are other
beings in the world whose condition we can make better in
respect of virtue, or of intelligence, or of pleasure. These are
the duties of beneficence, (y) Some rest on the fact that we can
improve our own condition in respect of virtue or of intelli-
gence. These are the duties of self-improvement. (6) I think
that we should distinguish from (4) the duties that may be
summed up under the title of 'not injuring others'. No doubt
to injure others is incidentally to fail to do them good; but it
seems to me clear that non-maleficence is apprehended as a
duty distinct from that of beneficence, and as a duty of a more
stringent character. It will be noticed that this alone among
the types of duty has been stated in a negative way." An attempt
might no doubt be made to state this duty, like the others, in
a positive way. It might be said that it is really the duty to
how them to be true. To me it seems as self-evident as anything could be, that to
make a promise, for instance, is to create a moral claim on us in someone else. Many
readers will perhaps say that they do not know this to be true. If so, I certainly caoitot
prove it to them; I can only ask them to reflect again, in die hope that they will ulti-
mately agree that they also know it to be true. The main moral convictions of the
plain man seem to me to be, not opinions which it is for philosophy to prove or dis-
prove, but knowledge from the start; and in my own case I seem to find little difficulty
in distinguishing these essential convictions Iron* other moral convictions which 1
also have, which are merely fallible opinions based ort an imperfect study of the work*
ing for good or evil of certain institutions or types of action.
' For a needed correction of this statement, cf. pp. M-J.
10

M 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
prevent ourselves from acting either from an inclination to
harm others or from an inclination to seek our own pleasure, in
doing which we should incidentally harm them. But on reflection
it seems clear that the primary duty here is the duty not to
harm others, this being a duty whether or not we have an
inclination that if followed would lead to our harming them;
and that when we have such an inclination the primary duty
not to harm others gives rise to a consequential duty to resist
the inclination. The recognition of this duty of non-maleficence
is the first step on the way to the recognition of the duty of
beneficence; and that accounts for the prominence of the com-
mands 'thou shalt not kill', 'thou shah not commit adultery',
'thou shalt not steal*, 'thou shalt not bear false witness', in so
early a code as the Decalogue. But even when we have come
to recognize the duty of beneficence, it appears to me that the
duty of non-maleficence is recognized as a distinct one, and as
prima facie more binding. We should not in general consider
it justifiable to kill one person in order to keep another alive,
or to steal from one in order to give alms to another.
The essential defect of the 'ideal utilitarian* theory is that
it ignores, or at least does not do full justice to, the highly
personal character of duty. If the only duty is to produce the
maximum of good, the question who is to have the good—•
whether it is myself, or my benefactor, or a person to whom I
have made a promise to confer that good on him, or a mere
fellow man to whom I stand in no such special relation—
should make no difference to my having a duty to produce that
good. But we are all in fact sure that it makes a vast difference.
One or two other comments must be made on this pro-
visional list of the divisions of duty, (i) The nomenclature is
not strictly correct. For by 'fidelity* or 'gratitude' we mean,
strictly, certain states of motivation; and, as I have urged, it is
not our duty to have certain motives, but to do certain acts.
By 'fidelity', for instance, is meant, strictly, the disposition to
fulfil promises and implicit promises because we have made them,
We have no general word to cover the actual fulfilment of
promises and implicit promises irrespective of motive; and I use
'fidelity', loosely but perhaps conveniently, to fill this gap. So
11
12

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS EIGHT? 
zj
too I use 'gratitude* for the returnitig of services, irrespective
of motive. The term 'justice* is not so much confined, in ordi-
nary usage, to a certain state of motivation, for we should
often talk of a man as acting justly even when we did not think
his motive was the wish to do what was just simply for the sake
of doing so. Less apology is therefore needed for our use of
'justice' in this sense. And I have used the word "beneficence*
rather than 'benevolence', in order to emphasize the fact that
it is our duty to do certain things, and not to do them from
certain motives.
(2) If the objection be made, that this catalogue of the main
types of duty is an unsystematic one resting on no logical
principle, it may be replied, first, that it makes no claim to being
ultimate. It is a prima facie classification of the duties which
reflection on our moral convictions seems actually to reveal.
And if these convictions are, as I would claim that they are, of
the nature of knowledge, and if I have not misstated them, the
list will be a list of authentic conditional duties, correct as far
as it goes though not necessarily complete. The list of goods
put forward by the rival theory is reached by exactly the same
method—the only sound one in the circumstances—viz, that
of direct reflection on what we really think. Loyalty to the
facts is worth more than a symmetrical architectonic or a hastily
reached simplicity. If further reflection discovers a perfect
logical basis for this or for a better classification, so much the
better.
(3) It may, again, be objected that our theory that there are
these various and often conflicting types of prima facie duty
leaves us with no principle upon which to discern what is our
actual duty in particular circumstances. But this objection is
not one which the rival theory is in a position to bring forward.
For when we have to choose between the production of two
heterogeneous goods, say knowledge and pleasure, the 'ideal
utilitarian* theory can only fall back on an opinion, for which
no logical basis can be offered, that one of the goods is the
greater; and this is no better than a similar opinion that one of
two duties is the more urgent. And again, when we consider
the infinite variety of the effects of our actions in the way of
13
14

24 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
pleasure, it must surely be admitted that the claim which
hedonism sometimes makes, that it offers a readily applicable cri-
terion of right conduct, is quite illusory.
I am unwilling, however, to content myself with an argu-
mentum ad Aominem, and I would contend that in principle
there is no reason to anticipate that every act that is our duty is
so for one and the same reason. Why should two sets of cir-
cumstances, or one set of circumstances, not possess different
characteristics, any one of which makes a certain act omprima
fade duty? When I ask what it is that makes me in certain
cases sure that I have a prima facie duty to do so and so, I find
that it lies in the fact that I have made a promise; when I ask
the same question in another case, I find the answer lies in the
fact that I have done a wrong. And if on reflection I find (as I
think I do) that neither of these reasons is reducible to the other,
I must not on any a priori ground assume that such a reduction
is possible.
An attempt may be made to arrange in a more systematic
way the main types of duty which we have indicated. In the
first place it seems self-evident that if there are things that are
intrinsically good, it is prima facie a duty to bring them into
existence rather than not to do so, and to bring as much of them
into existence as possible. It will be argued in our fifth chapter
that there are three main things that are intrinsically good—
virtue, knowledge, and, with certain limitations, pleasure. And
since a given virtuous disposition, for instance, is equally good
whether it is realized in myself or in another, it seems to be my
duty to bring it into existence whether in myself or in another.
So too with a given piece of knowledge.
The case of pleasure is difficult; for while we clearly recog-
nize a duty to produce pleasure for others, it is by no means so
clear that we recognize a duty to produce pleasure for our-
selves. This appears to arise from the following facts. The
thought of an act as our duty is one that presupposes a certain
amount of reflection about the act; and for that reason does not
normally arise in connexion with acts towards which we are
already impelled by another strong impulse. So far, the cause
of our not thinking of the promotion of our own pleasure as a
15
16

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
if
duty is analogous to the cause which usually prevents a highly
sympathetic person from thinking of the promotion of the
pleasure of others as a duty. He is impelled so strongly by
direct interest in the well-being of others towards promoting
their pleasure that he does not stop to ask whether it is his duty
to promote it; and we are all impelled so strongly towards the
promotion of our own pleasure that we do not stop to ask
whether it is a duty or not. But there is a further reason why
even when we stop to think about the matter it does not usually
present itself as a duty: viz. that, since the performance of most
of our duties involves the giving up of some pleasure that we
desire, the doing of duty and the getting of pleasure for our-
selves come by a natural association of ideas to be thought of as
incompatible things. This association of ideas is in the main
salutary in its operation, since it puts a check on what but for
it would be much too strong, the tendency to pursue one's
own pleasure without thought of other considerations. Yet
if pleasure is good, it seems in the long run clear that it is right
to get it for ourselves as well as to produce it for others, when
this does not involve the failure to discharge some more strin-
gent prims facie duty. The question is a very difficult one, but
it seems that this conclusion can be denied only on one or other
of three grounds: (i) that pleasure is not prima facie good (i.e.
good when it is neither the actualization of a bad disposition
nor undeserved), (2) that there is no prima facie duty to produce
as much that is good as we can, or (3) that though there is a
prima facie duty to produce other things that are good, there
is no prima facie duty to produce pleasure which will be en-
joyed by ourselves. I give reasons later" for not accepting the
first contention. The second hardly admits of argument but
seems to me plainly false. The third seems plausible only if we
hold that an act that is pleasant or brings pleasure to ourselves
must for that reason not be a duty; and this would lead to para-
doxical consequences, such as that if a man enjoys giving
pleasure to others or working for their moral improvement,
it cannot be his duty to do so. Yet it seems to be a very stub-
bom fact, that in our ordinary consciousness we are not aware
" PP. »3J-*-
17

26 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS EIGHT?
of a duty to get pleasure for ourselves; and by way of partial
explanation of this I may add that though, as I think, one's
own pleasure is a good and there is a duty to produce it, it is
only if we think of our own pleasure not as simply our own
pleasure, but as an objective good, something that an impartial
spectator would approve, that we can think of the getting it as
a duty; and we do not habitually think of it in this way, *
If these contentions are right, what we have called the duty
of Beneficence and the duty of self-improvement rest on the
same ground. No different principles of duty are involved in
the two cases. If we feel a special responsibility for improving
our own character rather than that of others, it is not because
a special principle is involved, but because we are aware that
the one is more under our control than the other. It was on
this ground that Kant expressed the practical law of duty in
the form 'seek to make yourself good and other people happy*.
He was so persuaded of the internality of virtue that he re-
garded any attempt by one person to produce virtue in another
as bound to produce, at most, only a counterfeit of virtue, the
doing of externally right acts not from the true principle of
virtuous action but out of regard to another person. It must
be admitted that one roan cannot compel another to be virtuous;
compulsory virtue would just not be virtue. But experience
clearly shows that Kant overshoots the mark when he contends
that one man cannot do anything to promote virtue in another,
to bring such influences to bear upon him that his own response
to them is more likely to be virtuous than his response to other
influences would have been. And our duty to do this is not
different in kind from our duty to improve our own characters.
It is equally clear, and clear at an earlier stage of moral de-
velopment, that if there are things that are bad in themselves
we ought, prima facie, not to bring them upon others; and on
this fact rests the duty of non-maleficence.
The duty of justice is particularly complicated, and the word
is used to cover things which are really very different—things
such as the payment of debts, the reparation of injuries done by
oneself to another, and the bringing about of a distribution of
happiness between other people in proportion to merit. I use
18
19

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
27
the word to denote only the last of these three. In die fifth
chapter I shall try to show that besides the three (compara-
tively) simple goods, virtue, knowledge, and pleasure, there is
a more complex good, not reducible to these, consisting in the
proportionment of happiness to virtue. The bringing of this
about is a duty which we owe to all men alike, though it may
be reinforced by special responsibilities that we have under-
taken to particular men. This, therefore, with beneficence and
self-improvement, comes under the general principle that we
should produce as much good as possible, though the good
here involved is different in kind from any other.
But besides this general obligation, there are special obliga-
tions. These may arise, in the first place, incidentally, from
acts which were not essentially meant to create such an obliga-
tion, but which nevertheless create it. From the nature of the
case such acts may be of two kinds—the infliction of injuries
on others, and the acceptance of benefits from them. It seems
clear that these put us under a special obligation to other men,
and that only these acts can do so incidentally. From these
arise the twin duties of reparation and gratitude,
And finally there are special obligations arising from acts
the very intention of which, when they were done, was to put
us under such an obligation. The name for such acts is 'pro-
mises'; the name is wide enough if we are willing to include
under it implicit promises, i.e. modes of behaviour in which
without explicit verbal promise we intentionally create an ex-
pectation that we can be counted on to behave in a certain
way in the interest of another person.
These seem to be, in principle, all the ways in which prima
facie duties arise. In actual experience they are compounded
together in highly complex ways. Thus, for example, the duty
of obeying the laws of one's country arises partly (as Socrates
contends in the Crito) from the duty of gratitude for the bene-
fits one has received from it; partly from the implicit promise
to obey which seems to be involved in permanent residence in a
country whose laws we know we are expected to obey, and still
more clearly involved when we ourselves invoke the protection
of its laws (this is the truth underlying the doctrine of the
20
21
22
23

2g 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
social contract); and partly (if we are fortunate in our country)
from the fact that its laws are potent instruments for the general
good.
Or again, the sense of a general obligation to bring about
(so far as we can) a just apportionment of happiness to merit is
often greatly reinforced by the fact that many of the existing
injustices are due to a social and economic system which we
have, not indeed created, but taken part in and assented to; the
duty of justice is then reinforced by the duty of reparation.
It is necessary to say something by way of clearing up the
relation between prima facie duties and the actual or absolute
duty to do one particular act in particular circumstances. If,
as almost all moralists except Kant are agreed, and as most
plain men think, it is sometimes right to tell a lie or to break a
promise, it must be maintained that there is a difference between
prima facie duty and actual or absolute duty. When we think
ourselves justified in breaking, and indeed morally obliged to
break, a promise in order to relieve some one's distress, we do
not for a moment cease to recognize a prima facie duty to keep
our promise, and this leads us to feel, not indeed shame or
repentance, but certainly compunction, for behaving as we do;
we recognize, further, that it is our duty to make up somehow
to the promisee for the breaking of the promise. We have to
distinguish from the characteristic of being our duty that of
tending to be our duty. Any act that we do contains various
elements in virtue of which it falls under various categories.
In virtue of being the breaking of a promise, for instance, it
tends to be wrong; in virtue of being an instance of relieving
distress it tends to be right. Tendency to be one's duty may be
called a parti-resultant attribute, i.e. one which belongs to an
act in virtue of some one component in its nature. Being one's
duty is a tori-resultant attribute, one which belongs to an act
in virtue of its whole nature and of nothing less than this.l This
distinction between parti-resultant and toti-resukant attributes
is one which we shall meet in another context also.2
Another instance of the same distinction may be found in
the operation of natural laws. Qua subject to the force of
1 But ef. the qualification in p. jj, a. a. 
* Cf. pp. 1*1-3.
24
25

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
29
gravitation towards some other body, each body tends to move
in a particular direction with a particular velocity; but its actual
movement depends on all the forces to which it is subject. It
is only by recognizing this distinction that we can preserve the
absoluteness of laws of nature, and only by recognizing a
corresponding distinction that we can preserve the absoluteness
of the general principles of morality. But an important difference
between the two cases must be pointed out. When we say that
in virtue of gravitation a body tends to move in a certain way,
we are referring to a causal influence actually exercised on it by
another body or other bodies. When we say that in virtue of
being deliberately untrue a certain remark tends to be wrong,
we are referring to no causal relation, to no relation that involves
succession in time, but to such a relation as connects the various
attributes of a mathematical figure. And if the word 'tendency*
is thought to suggest too much a causal relation, it is better to
talk of certain types of act as being prima facie right or wrong
(or of different persons as having different and possibly con-
flicting claims upon us), than of their tending to be right or
wrong.
Something should be said of the relation between our appre-
hension of the prima fade Tightness of certain types of act and
our mental attitude towards particular acts, It is proper to use
the word 'apprehension* in the former case and not in the latter.
That an act, qua fulfilling a promise, or qua effecting a just
distribution of good, or qua returning services rendered, or
qua promoting the good of others, or qua promoting the virtue
or insight of the agent, is prima facie right, is self-evident; not
in the sense that it is evident from the beginning of our lives,
or as soon as we attend to the proposition for the first time, but
in the sense that when we have reached sufficient mental maturity
and have given sufficient attention to the proposition it is evi-
dent without any need of proof, or of evidence beyond itself,
It is self-evident just as a mathematical axiom, or the validity of
a form of inference, is evident. The moral order expressed in
these propositions is just as much part of the fundamental
nature of the universe (and, we may add, of any possible uni-
verse in which there were moral agents at all) as is the spatial
26
27

jo 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
or numerical structure expressed in the axioms of geometry or
arithmetic. In OUT confidence that these propositions are true
there is involved the same trust in our reason that is involved
in our confidence in mathematics; and we should have no
justification for trusting it in the latter sphere and distrusting
it in the former. In both cases we are dealing with propositions
that cannot be proved, but that just as certainly need no
proof, *
Some of these general principles of prima facie duty may
appear to be open to criticism. It may be thought, for example,
that the principle of returning good for good is a falling off
from the Christian principle, generally and rightly recognized
as expressing the highest morality, of returning good for evil.
To this it may be replied that I do not suggest that there is a
principle commanding us to return good for good and for-
bidding us to return good for evil, and that I do suggest ^hat
there is a positive duty to seek the good of all men. What I
maintain is that an act in which good is returned for good is
recognized as specially binding on us just because it is of that
character, and that ceteris pariius any one would think it his
duty to help his benefactors rather than his enemies, if he could
not do both; just as it is generally recognized that ceterisparibus
we should pay our debts rather than give our money in charity,
when we cannot do both. A benefactor is not only a man,
calling for our effort on his behalf on that ground, but also our
benefactor, calling for our special effort on that ground.
Our judgements about our actual duty in concrete situations
have none of the certainty that attaches to our recognition of
the general principles of duty. A statement is certain, i.e. is an
expression of knowledge, only in one or other of two cases:
when it is either self-evident, or a valid conclusion from self-
evident premisses. And our judgements about our particular
duties have neither of these characters, (i) They are not self-
evident. Where a possible act is seen to have two characteristics,
in virtue of one of which it is prima facie right, and in virtue of
the other prima facie wrong, we are (I think) well aware that
we are not certain whether we ought or ought not to do it;
that whether we do it or not, we are taking a moral risk. We
28

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
31
come in the long run, after consideration, to think one duty
more pressing than the other, but we do not feel certain that
it is so. And though we do not always recognize that a possible
act has two such characteristics, and though there may be cases
in which it has not, we are never certain that any particular
possible act has not, and therefore never certain that it is right,
nor certain that it is wrong. For, to go no further in the analysis,
it is enough to point out that any particular act will in all
probability in the course of time contribute to the bringing
about of good or of evil for many human beings, and thus have
aprima facie Tightness or wrongness of which we know nothing,
(z) Again, our judgements about our particular duties are not
logical conclusions from self-evident premisses. The only
possible premisses would be the general principles stating their
prima facie Tightness or wrongness qua, having the different
characteristics they do have; and even if we could (as we cannot)
apprehend the extent to which an act will tend on the one hand,
for example, to bring about advantages for our benefactors,
and on the other hand to bring about disadvantages for fellow
men who are not our benefactors, there is no principle by which
we can draw the conclusion that it is on the whole right or on
the whole wrong. In this respect the judgement as to the right-
ness of a particular act is just like the judgement as to the beauty
of a particular natural object or work of art. A poem is, for
instance, in respect of certain qualities beautiful and in respect
of certain others not beautiful; and our judgement as to the
degree of beauty it possesses on the whole is never reached by
logical reasoning from the apprehension of its particular beauties
or particular defects. Both in this and in the moral case we
have more or less probable opinions which are not logically
justified conclusions from the general principles that are recog-
nized as self-evident.
There is therefore much truth in the description of the right
act as a fortunate act. If we cannot be certain that it is right, it
is our good fortune if the act we do is the right act. This con-
sideration does not, however, make the doing of our duty a
mere matter of chance. There is a parallel here between the
doing of duty and the doing of what will be to our personal
29

ji 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
advantage. We never know what act will in the long run be to
our advantage. Yet It is certain that we are more likely in
general to secure our advantage if we estimate to the best of
our ability the probable tendencies of our actions in this respect,
than if we act on caprice. And similarly we are more likely to
do our duty if we reflect to the best of our ability on dieprima
facie Tightness or wrongness of various possible acts in virtue
of the characteristics we perceive them to have, than if we act
without reflection. With this greater likelihood we must be
content.
Many people would be inclined to say that the right act for
me is not that whose general nature I have been describing,
viz, that which if I were omniscient I should see to be my duty,
but that which on all the evidence available to me I should
think to be my duty. But suppose that from the state of partial
knowledge in which I think act A to be my duty, I could pass
to a state of perfect knowledge in which I saw act S to be my
duty, should I not say 'act B was the right act for me to do* ?
I should no doubt add 'though I am not to be blamed for doing
act A\ But in adding this, am I not passing from thequestion
'what is right' to the question 'what is morally good*? At the
same time I am not making the full passage from the one notion
to the other; for in order that the act should be morally good,
or an act I am not to be blamed for doing, it must not merely be
the act which it is reasonable for me to think my duty; it must
also be done for that reason, or from some other morally good
motive. Thus the conception of the right act as the act which
it is reasonable for me to think my duty is an unsatisfactory
compromise between the true notion of the right act and the
notion of the morally good action.*
The general principles of duty are obviously not self-evident
from the beginning of our lives. How do they come to be so?
The answer is, that they come to be self-evident to us just as
mathematical axioms do. We find by experience that this
couple of matches and that couple make four matches,
that this couple of balls on a wire and that couple make
four balls; and by reflection on these and similar discoveries
we come to see that it is of the nature of two and two to
30
31

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
33
make four. In a precisely similaf way, we see the prima
facie Tightness of an act which would be the fulfilment of
a particular promise, and of another which would be the ful-
filment of another promise, and when we have reached sufficient
maturity to think in general terms, we apprehend prima facie
tightness to belong to the nature of any fulfilment of promise.
What comes first in time is the apprehension of the self-
evident prima facie rightness of an individual act of a particular
type. From this we come by reflection to apprehend the self-
evident general principle of prima facie duty. From this, too,
perhaps along with the apprehension of the self-evident prima
j'octef rightness of the same act in virtue of its having another
characteristic as well, and perhaps in spite of the apprehension
of its prima facie wrongness in virtue of its having some third
characteristic, we come to believe something not self-evident
at all, but an object of probable opinion, viz. that this particular
act is (not prima facie but) actually right.
In this respect there is an important difference between
rightness and mathematical properties. A triangle which is
isosceles necessarily has two of its angles equal, whatever other
characteristics the triangle may have—-whatever, for instance,
be its area, or the size of its third angle. The, equality of the
two angles is a parti-resultant attribute.1 And the same is true
of all mathematical attributes. It is true, I may add, of prima
facie rightness. But no act is ever, in virtue of falling under
some general description, necessarily actually right; its right-
ness depends on its whole nature 2 and not on any element in it.
The reason is that no mathematical object (no figure, for instance,
or angle) ever has two characteristics that tend to give it oppo-
site resultant characteristics, while moral acts often (as every one
knows) and indeed always (as on reflection we must admit)
have different characteristics that tend to make them at the
same time prima fade right and prima facie wrong; there is
1 Cf. pp. *8» IM-J.
* To avoid complicating unduly the statement of the general view I ant puffing
forward, I have here rather overstated it. Any act i$ the origination of a great variety
of things many of which make no difference to its rightness or wrongness. But there
are always many elements in its nature (i. e, in what it is the origination of) that make
a difference to its rightness or wrongness, and no element in its nature can be dismissed
without consideration as indifferent.
32
33

34 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
probably no act, for instance, which does good to any one
without doing harm to some one else, and. vice versa,
Supposing it to be agreed, as I think on reflection it must,
that no one means by 'right* just 'productive of the best possible
consequences', or 'optitnific*, the attributes 'right* and 'opti-
mific' might stand in either of two kinds of relation to each
other, (i) They might be so related that we could apprehend
a priori^ either immediately or deductively, that any act that
is optimific is right and any act that is right is optimific, as we
can apprehend that any triangle that is equilateral is equiangular
and vice versa. Professor Moore's view is, I think, that the
coextensiveness of 'right' and 'optimific' is apprehended im-
mediately,1 He rejects the possibility of any proof of it. Or
(2) the two attributes might be such that the question whether
they are invariably connected had to be answered by means of
an inductive inquiry. Now at first sight it might seem as if the
constant connexion of the two attributes could be immediately
apprehended. It might seem absurd to suggest that it could be
right for any one to do an act which would produce conse-
quences less good than those which would be produced by
some other act in his power. Yet a little thought will convince
us that this is not absurd. The type of case in which it is easiest
to see that this is so is, perhaps, that in which one has made a
promise. In such a case we all think that prima, facie it is our
duty to fulfil the,promise irrespective of the precise goodness
of the total consequences. And though we do not think it is
necessarily our actual or absolute duty to do so, we are far from
thinking that any, even the slightest, gain in the valpe of the
total consequences will necessarily justify us in doing some-
thing else instead. Suppose, to simplify the case by abstraction,
that the fulfilment of a promise to A would produce 1,000 units
of good 2 for him, but that by doing some other act I could
produce 1,001 units of good for J?, to whom I have made no
1 Ettics, »8i.
1 I am assuming that good is objectively quantitative (cf. pp. 142-4), but not that
we can accurately assign an exact quantitative measure to it. Since it is of a definite
amount, we can make the supposition that its amount is so-and-so, though we cannot
with any confidence atsen that it is.
34

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
35
promise, the other consequences of the two acts being of equal
value; should we really think it self-evident that it was our
duty to do the second act and not the first ? I think not. We
should, I fancy, hold that only a much greater disparity of
value between the total consequences would justify us in failing
to discharge our prima facie duty to A* After all, a promise is
a promise, and is not to be treated so lightly as the theory we
are examining would imply. What, exactly, a promise is, is
not so easy to determine, but we are surely agreed that it con-
stitutes a serious moral limitation to our freedom of action.
To produce the 1,001 units of good for B rather than fulfil our
promise to A would be to take, not perhaps our duty as phil-
anthropists too seriously, but certainly our duty as makers of
promises too lightly.
Or consider another phase of the same problem. If I have
promised to confer on A a particular benefit containing 1,000
units of good, is it self-evident that if by doing some different
act I could produce 1,001 units of good for A himself (the
other consequences of the two acts being supposed equal in
value), it would be right for me to do so ? Again, I think not.
Apart from my general prima facie duty to do A what good I
can, I have another prima facie duty to do Mm the particular
service I have promised to do him, and this is not to be set
aside in consequence of a disparity of good of the order of
1,001 to 1,000, though a much greater disparity might justify
me in so doing.
Or again, suppose that A is a very good and J* a very bad
man, should I then, even when I have made no promise, think
it self-evidently right to produce 1,001 units of good for B
rather than 1,000 for At Surely not, I should be sensible of
a prima facie duty of justice, i.e. of producing a distribution of
goods in proportion to merit, which is not outweighed by
such a slight disparity in the total goods to be produced,
Such instances—and they might easily be added to—make
it clear that there is no self-evident connexion between the
attributes 'right' and 'optimific*. The theory we are examining
has a certain attractiveness when applied to our decision that
a particular act is our duty (though I have tried to show that
35
36

36 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
it does not agree with our actual moral judgements even here),
But it is not even plausible when applied to our recognition
of prima facie duty. For If it were self-evident that the right
coincides with the optimific, it should be self-evident that what
is prima fafie right is prima facie optimific. But whereas we are
certain that keeping a promise is prima facie right, we are
not certain that it is prima facie optimific (though we are per-
hapscertain thatit isprima facie bonific). Our certainty that it is
prima facie right depends not on its consequences but on its
being the fulfilment of a promise. The theory we are examining
involves too much difference between the evident ground of
our conviction about prima facie duty and the alleged ground
of our conviction about actual duty.
The coextensiveness of the right and the optimific is, then,
not self-evident. And I can see no way of proving it deduc-
tively; nor, so far as I know, has any one tried to do so. There
remains the question whether it can be established inductively,
Such an inquiry, to be conclusive, would have to be very
thorough and extensive. We should have to take a large variety
of the acts which we, to the best of our ability, judge to be
right. We should have to trace as far as possible their conse-
quences, not only for the persons directly affected but also for
those indirectly affected, and to these no limit can be set. To
make our inquiry thoroughly conclusive, we should have to do
what we cannot do, viz. trace these consequences into an un-
ending future. And even to make it reasonably conclusive,
we should have to trace them far into the future. It is clear
that the most we could possibly say is that a large variety of
typical acts that are judged right appear, so far as we can trace
their consequences, to produce more good than any other acts
possible to the agents in the circumstances. And such a result
falls far short of proving the constant connexion of the two
attributes. But it is surely clear that no inductive inquiry justi-
fying even this result has ever been carried through. The
advocates of utilitarian systems have been so much persuaded
either of the identity or of the self-evident connexion of the
attributes 'right* and 'optimific' (or 'felicific') that they have
not attempted even such an inductive inquiry as is possible.
37
38

WHAT' MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
37
And in view of the enormous complexity of the task and the
inevitable inconclusiveness of the result, it is worth no one's
while to make the attempt. What, after all, would be gained
by it? If, as I have tried to show, for an act to be right and to
be optiraific are not the same thing, and an act's being optimific
is not even the ground of its being right, then if we could ask our-
selves (though the question is reallyunmeaning) which we ought
to do, right acts because they are right or optimific acts because
they are optimific, our answer must be *the former'. If they are
optimific as well as right, that is interesting but not morally im-
portant; if not, we still ought to do them (which is only another
way of saying that they are the right acts), and the question
whether they are optimifie has no importance for moral theory.
There is one direction in which a fairly serious attempt has
been made to show the connexion of the attributes 'right* and
'optimific*. One of the most evident facts of our moral con-
sciousness is the sense which we have of the sanctity of promises,
a sense which does not, on the face of it, involve the thought
that one will be bringing more good into existence by fulfilling
the promise than by breaking it. It is plain, I think, that in our
normal thought we consider that the fact that we have made a
promise is in itself sufficient to create a duty of keeping it, the
sense of duty resting on remembrance of the past promise and
not on thoughts of the future consequences of its fulfilment.
Utilitarianism tries to show that this is not so, that the sanctity
of promises rests on the good consequences of the fulfilment of
them and the bad consequences of their non-fulfilment. It
does so in this way: it points out that when you break a promise
you not only fail to confer a certain advantage on your promisee
but you diminish his confidence, and indirectly the confidence
of others, in the fulfilment of promises, You thus strike a blow
at one of the devices that have been found most useful in the
relations between man and man—the device on which, for
example, the whole system of commercial credit rests—and
you tend to bring about a state of things wherein each man,
being entirely unable to rely on the keeping of promises by
others, will have to do everything for himself, to the enormous
impoverishment of human well-being.
39

j8 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
To pot the matter otherwise, utilitarians say that when a
promise ought to be kept it is because the total good to be pro-
duced by keeping it is greater than the total good to be
produced by breaking it, the former including as its main ele-
ment the maintenance and strengthening of general mutual
confidence, and the latter being greatly diminished by a weaken-
ing of this confidence. They say, in fact, that the case I put
some pages backl never arises—the case in which by fulfilling
a promise I shall bring into being 1,000 units of good for my
promisee, and by breaking it 1,001 units of good for some one
else, the other effects of the two acts being of equal value. The
other effects, they say, never are of equal value. By keeping
my promise I am helping to strengthen the system of mutual
confidence; by breaking it I am helping to weaken thisj so that
really the first act produces i,ooo+x units of good, and the
second itooi—y units, and the difference between +x and
—y is enough to outweigh the slight superiority in the im-
mediate effects of the second act. In answer to this it may be
pointed out that there must be some amount of good that ex-
ceeds the difference between +x and — y (i.e. exceeds x+y);
say, x+y+ {. Let us suppose the immediate good effects of the
second act to be assessed not at 1,001 but at i,ooo+x+y+^,
Then its net good effects are i,ooo+*+{» i.e. greater than
those of the fulfilment of the promise; and the utilitarian is
bound to say forthwith that the promise should be broken.
Now, we may ask whether that is really the way we think about
promises? Do we really think that the production of the
slightest balance of good, no matter who will enjoy it, by the
breach of a promise frees us from the obligation to keep our
promise? We need not doubt that a system by which promises
are made and kept is one that has great advantages for the
general well-being. But that is not the whole truth. To make
a promise is not merely to adapt an ingenious device for pro-
moting the general well-being; it is to put oneself in a new
relation to one person in particular, a relation which creates
a specifically new prima facie duty to him, not reducible to the
duty of promoting the general well-being of society. By all
« p. 34-
40

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
39
means let us try to foresee the net good effects of keeping one's
promise and the net good effects of breaking it, but even if we
assess the first at 1,000+* and the second at i,ooo+*+{, the
question still remains whether it is not our duty to fulfil the
promise. It may be suspected, too, that the effect of a single
keeping or breaking of a promise in strengthening or weaken-
ing the fabric of mutual confidence is greatly exaggerated by
the theory we are examining. And if we suppose two men
dying together alone, do we think that the duty of one to fulfil
before he dies a promise he has made to the other would be
extinguished by the fact that neither act would have any effect
on the general confidence? Any one who holds this may be
suspected of not having reflected on what a promise is.
I conclude that the attributes 'right* and 'optitnific' are not
identical, and that we do not know either by intuition, by de-
duction, or by induction that they coincide in their application,
still less that the latter is the foundation of the former. It must
be added, however, that if we are ever under no special
obligation such as that of fidelity to a promisee or of gratitude
to a benefactor, we ought to do what will produce most good;
and that even when we are under a special obligation the ten-
dency of acts to promote general good is one of the main factors
in determining whether they are right.
In what has preceded, a good deal of use has been made of
'what we really think* about moral questions; a certain theory
has been rejected because it does not agree with what we really
think. It might be said that this is in principle wrong; that we
should not be content to expound what our present moral
consciousness tells us but should aim at a criticism of our exist-
ing moral consciousness in the light of theory. Now I do not
doubt that the moral consciousness of men has in detail under-
gone a good deal of modification as regards the things we think
right, at the hands of moral theory. But if we are told, for
instance, that we should give up our view that there is a special
obligatoriness attaching to the keeping of promises because it
is self-evident that the only duty is to produce as much good as
possible, we have to ask ourselves whether we really, when we
41
42

40 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
reflect, are convinced that this is self-evident, and whether we
really can get rid of our view that promise-keeping has a bind-
ingness independent of productiveness of maximum good. In
my own experience I find that I cannot, in spite of a very genuine
attempt to do so; and I venture to think that most people will
find the same, and that just because they cannot lose the sense
of special obligation, they cannot accept as self-evident, or even
as true, the theory which would require them to do so. In fact
it seems, on reflection, self-evident that a promise, simply as
such, is something that prima facie ought to be kept, and it
does not, on reflection, seem self-evident that production of
maximum good is the only thing that makes an act obligatory.
And to ask us to give up at the bidding of a theory our actual
apprehension of what is right and what is wrong seems like
asking people to repudiate their actual experience of beauty,
at the bidding of a theory which says 'only that which satisfies
such and such conditions can be beautiful'. If what I have
called our actual apprehension is (as I would maintain that it
is) truly an apprehension, i.e. an instance of knowledge, the
request is nothing less than absurd.
I would maintain, in fact, that what we are apt to describe
as "what we think* about moral questions contains a consider-
able amount that we do not think but know, and that this forms
the standard by reference to which the truth of any moral
theory has to be tested, instead of having itself to be tested by
reference to any theory. I hope that I have in what precedes
indicated what in my view these elements of knowledge are
that are involved in our ordinary moral consciousness.
It would be a mistake to found a natural science on 'what we
really think', i.e. on what reasonably thoughtful and well-
educated people think about the subjects of the science before
they have studied them scientifically. For such opinions are
interpretations, and often misinterpretations, of sense-ex-
perience; and the man of science must appeal from these to
sense-experience itself, which furnishes his real data. In ethics
no such appeal is possible. We have no more direct way of
access to the facts about Tightness and goodness and about
what things are right or good, than by thinking about them;
43

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
41
the moral convictions of thoughtful and well-educated people
are the data of ethics just as sense-perceptions are the data of a
natural science. Just as some of the latter have to be rejected
as illusory, so have some of the former; but as the latter are
rejected only when they are in conflict with other more accurate
sense-perceptions, the former are rejected only when they are
in conflict with other convictions which stand better the test of
reflection. The existing body of moral convictions of the best
people is the cumulative product of the moral reflection of many
generations, which has developed an extremely delicate power
of appreciation of moral distinctions; and this the theorist
cannot afford to treat with anything other than the greatest
respect. The verdicts of the moral consciousness of the best
people are the foundation on which he must build; though he
must first compare them with one another and eliminate any
contradictions they may contain.
It is worth while to try to state more definitely the nature of
the acts that are right. We may try to state first what (if any-
thing) is the universal nature of all acts that are right. It is
obvious that any of the acts that we do has countless effects,
directly or indirectly, on countless people, and the probability
is that any act, however right it be, will have adverse effects
(though these may be very trivial) on some innocent people.
Similarly, any wrong act will probably have beneficial effects
on some deserving people. Every act therefore, viewed in
some aspects, will be prima facie right, and viewed in others,
prim® facie wrong, and right acts can be distinguished from
wrong acts only as being those which, of all those possible for
the agent in the circumstances, have the greatest balance of
prima facie rightness, in those respects in which they ate prima
facie right, over their prims fade wrongness, in those respects
in which they are prima facie wrong—prima facie rightness
and wrongness being understood in the sense previously ex-
plained. For the estimation of the comparative stringency of
these prima facie obligations no general rules can, so far as I can
see, be laid down. We can only say that a great deal of strin-
gency belongs to the dudes of 'perfect obligation'—the dudes
44
45

42 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
of keeping our promises, of repairing wrongs we have done, and
of returning the equivalent of services we have received. For
the rest, ev rjj aiaBrpei if Kptms," This-sense of our particular
duty in particular circumstances, preceded and informed by
the fullest reflection we can bestow on the act in all its bearings,
is highly fallible, but it is the only guide we have to our duty.
"When we turn to consider the nature of individual right
acts, the first point to which attention should be called is that
any act may be correctly described in an indefinite, and in
principle infinite, number of ways. An act is the production
of a change in the state of affairs (if we ignore, for simplicity's
sake, the comparatively few cases in which it is the maintenance
of an existing state of affairs; cases which, I think, raise no
special difficulty). Now the only changes we can directly pro-
duce are changes in our own bodies or in our own minds. But
these are not, as such, what as a rule we think it our duty to
produce. Consider some comparatively simple act, such as
telling the truth or fulfilling a promise. In the first case what I
produce directly is movements of my vocal organs. But what
I think it my duty to produce is a true view in some one else's
mind about some fact, and between my movement of my vocal
organs and this result there intervenes a series of physical events
and events in his mind. Again, in the second case, I may have
promised, for instance, to return a book to a friend. I may be
able, by a series of movements of my legs and hands, to place
it in his hands. But what I am just as likely to do, and to think
I have done my duty in doing, is to send it by a messenger or
to hand it to his servant or to send it by post; and in each of
these cases what I do directly is worthless in itself and is con-
nected by a series of intermediate links with what I do think it
is my duty to bring about, viz, his receiving what I have
promised to return to him. This being so, it seems as if what
I do has no oblSgatoriness in itself and as if one or other of three
accounts should be given of the matter, each of which makes
Tightness not belong to what I do, considered in its own nature.
(i) One of them would be that what is obligatory is not
doing anything in the natural sense of producing any change
1 'The decision rests with perception*. Arist, Nk. EtL 1109 b ij,»(2(5 b 4.
46

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
43
in the state of affairs, but aiming at something—at, for instance,
my friend's reception of the book. But this account will not do.
For (a) to aim at something is to act from a motive consisting
of the wish to bring that thing about. But we have seen1 that
motive never forms part of the content of our duty; if anything
is certain about morals, that, I think, is certain. And ($) if I
have promised to return the book to my friend, I obviously do
not fulfil my promise and do my duty merely by aiming at his
receiving the book; I must see that he actually receives it.
(2) A more plausible account is that which says I must do that
which is likely to produce the result. But this account is open
to the second of these objections, and probably also to the first.
For in the first place, however likely my act may seem, even on
careful consideration, and even however likely it may in fact be,
to produce the result, if it does not produce it I have not done
what I promised to do, i.e. have not done my duty. And
secondly, when it is said that I ought to do what is likely to
produce the result, what is probably meant is that I ought to do
a certain thing as a result of the wish to produce a certain result,
and of the thought that my act is likely to produce it; and this
again introduces motive into the content of duty. (3) Much the
most plausible of the three accounts is that which says, *I ought
to do that which will actually produce a certain result.' This
escapes objection ($). Whether it escapes objection (a) or not
depends on what exactly is meant. If it is meant that I ought
to do a certain thing from the wish to produce a certain result
and the thought that it will do so, the account is still open to
objection (a). But if it is meant simply that I ought to do a
certain thing, and that the reason why I ought to do it is that it
will produce a certain result, objection (a) is avoided. Now
this account in its second form is that which utilitarianism
gives. It says what is right is certain acts, not certain acts
motivated in a certain way; and it says that acts are never right
by their own nature but by virtue of the goodness of their
actual results. And this account is, I think, clearly nearer the
truth than one which makes the rightness of an act depend on
the goodness of either the intended'or the likely results.
3 pp. f-6.
47

44 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
Nevertheless, this account appears not to be the true one.
For it implies that what we consider right or our duty is what
we do directly. It is this, e.g. the packing up and posting of
the book, that derives its moral significance not from its own
nature but from its consequences. But this is not what we
should describe, strictly, as our duty; our duty is to fulfil our
promise, i.e. to put the book into our friend's possession. This
we consider obligatory in its own nature, just because it is a
fulfilment of promise, and not because of its consequences.
But, it might be replied by the utilitarian, I do not do this; I
only do something that leads up to this, and what I do has no
moral significance in itself but only because of its consequences.
In answer to this, however, we may point out that a cause
produces not only its immediate, but also its remote conse-
quences, and the latter no less than the former. I, therefore,
not only produce the immediate movements of parts of my body
but also my friend's reception of the book, which results from
these. Or, if this be objected to on the grounds that I can hardly
be said to have produced my friend's reception of the book
when I have packed and posted it, owing to the time that has
still to elapse before he receives it, and that to say I have pro-
duced the result hardly does justice to the part played by the
Post Office, we may at least say that I have secured my friend's
reception of the book. What I do is as truly describable in this
way as by saying that it is the packing and posting of a book.
(It is equally truly describable in many other ways; e.g. I have
provided a few moments' employment for Post Office officials.
But this is irrelevant to the argument.) And if we ask ourselves
whether it is qua, the packing and posting of a book, or qua the
securing of my friend's getting what I have promised to return
to him, that my action is right, it is clear that it is in the second
capacity that it is right; and in this capacity, the only capacity
in which it is right, it is right by its own nature and not because
of its consequences.
This account may no doubt be objected to, on the ground
that we are ignoring the freedom of will of the other agents-—
the sorter and the postman, for instance—who are equally
responsible for the result. Society, it may be said, is not like a
48

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
45
machine, in which event follows event by rigorous necessity.
Some one may, for instance, in the"exercise of his freedom of
will, steal the book on the way. But it is to be observed that I
have excluded that case, and any similar case. I am dealing with
the case in which I secure my friend's receiving the book;, and
if he does not receive it I have not secured his receiving it. If
on the other hand the book reaches its destination, that alone
shows that, the system of things being what it is, the trains by
which the book travels and the railway lines along which it
travels being such as they are and subject to the laws they are
subject to, the postal officials who handle it being such as they
are, having the motives they have and being subject to the
psychological laws they are subject to, my posting the book
was the one further thing which was sufficient to procure my
friend's receiving it If it had not been sufficient, the result
would not have followed. The attainment of the result proves
the sufficiency of the means. The objection in fact rests on the
supposition that there can be unmotived action, i.e. an event
without a cause, and may be refuted by reflection on the uni-
versality of the law of causation,
It is equally true that non-attainment of the result proves
the insufficiency of the means. If the book had been destroyed
in a railway accident or stolen by a dishonest postman, that
would prove that my immediate act was not sufficient to pro-
duce the desired result. We get the curious consequence that
however carelessly I pack or dispatch the book, if it comes to
hand I have done my duty, and however carefully I have acted,
if the book does not come to hand I have not done my duty.
Success and failure are the only test, and a sufficient test, of the
performance of duty. Of course, I should deserve more praise
in the second case than in the first; but that is an entirely different
question; we must not mix up the question of right and wrong
with that of the morally good and the morally bad. And that
our conclusion is not as strange as at first sight it might seem
is shown by the fact that if the carelessly dispatched book
comes to hand, it is not my duty to send another copy, while
if the carefully dispatched book does not come to hand I must
send another copy to replace it. In the first case I have not my
49
50

46 
WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT?
duty still to do, which shows that I have done it; in the second
I have it still to do, which shows that I have not done it.
We have reached the result that my act is right fw being an
ensuring of one of the particular states of affairs of which it is
an ensuring, viz., in the case we have taken, of my friend's
receiving the book I have promised to return to him. But this
answer requires some correction; for it refers only to the prima
facie rightness of my act. If to be a fulfilment of promise were
a sufficient ground of the rightness of an act, alt fulfilments of
promises would be right, whereas it seems clear that there are
cases in which some othet prima facig duty overrides the prima
facie duty of fulfilling a promise. The more correct answer
would be that the ground of the actual rightness of the act is
that, of all acts possible for the agent in the circumstances, it
is that whose prima facie rightness in the respects in which it is
prima facie right most outweighs its prima fade wrongness in
any respects in which it is prima facie wrong. But since its
prima Jade rightness is mainly due to its being a fulfilment of
promise, we may call its being so the salient element in the
ground of its rightness.
Subject to this qualification, then, it is as being the produc-
tion (or if we prefer the word, the securing or ensuring) of the
reception by my friend of what I have promised him (or in
other words as the fulfilment of my promise) that my act is
right It is not right as a packing and posting of a book. The
packing and posting of the book is only incidentally right,
right only because it is a fulfilment of promise, which is what is
directly or essentially right.
Our duty, then, is not to do certain things which will pro-
duce certain results. Our acts, at any rate out acts of special
obligation, are not right because they will produce certain
results—which is the view common to all forms of utilita-
rianism. To say that is to say that in the case in question what
is essentially right is to pack and post a book, whereas what is
essentially right is to secure the possession by my friend of
what I have promised to return to him. An act is not right
because it, being one thing, produces good results different from
itself; it is right because it is itself the production of a certain
51
52
53

WHAT MAKES RIGHT ACTS RIGHT? 
47
state of affairs. Such production is right in itself, apart from
any consequence,
But, it might be said, this analysis applies only to acts of
special obligation; the utilitarian account still holds good for
the acts in which we are not under a special obligation to any
person or set of persons but only under that of augmenting the
general good. Now merely to have established that there are
special obligations to do certain things irrespective of their con-
sequences would be already to have made a considerable breach
in the utilitarian walls; for according to utilitarianism there is
no such thing, there is only the single obligation to promote
the general good. But, further, on reflection it is clear that just
as (in the case we have taken) my act is not only the packing
and posting of a book but the fulfilling of a promise, and just
as it is in the latter capacity and not in the former that it is my
duty, so an act whereby I augment the general good is not only,
let us say, the writing of a begging letter on behalf of a hospital,
but the producing (or ensuring) of whatever good ensues
therefrom, and it is in the latter capacity and not in the former
that it is right, if it w right. That which is right is right not
because it is an act, one thing, which will produce another
thing, an increase of the general welfare, but because it is itself
the producing of an increase in the general welfare. Or, to
qualify this in the necessary way, its being the production of an
increase in the general welfare is the salient element in the
ground of its Tightness. Just as before we were led to recognize
the prima facie lightness of the fulfilment of promises, we are
now led to recognize the prima facie rightness of promoting
the general welfare. In both cases we have to recognize the
intrinsic rightness of a certain type of act, not depending on its
consequences but on its own nature.
54

