I want to describe my process of parapetetic walking. Parapetetic talking. And why does
it work? It's because we stimulate the central pattern of generating, the chain of
waves. We generate the fourth-blast living wave. We generate movement. You can create
superintelligent agent. I mean, the whole process, the whole experience, is to amplify the scientific
method of experimenting. Even if they don't know what's going on inside us, it'll get
better. Recording the thoughts in a jar. It's a leaf imprint in the world, which we call
after-effects of behavior, the equality of consequences of the action of the remain. The
implications. I have an argument. It's a very early date of decomposers. We change everything
into dolphin and fish waves. Left, right. This is one of the six degrees of freedom.
It's rotation forward, backward, and axis to get movement forward and backward. And this is rotation.
And the left, right axis to get movement cycles. There is a rotation of clockwise and
witherwards to this rotation of the up-down axis without moving up or down. These are all
kind of the usual spinners. You rotate something. 720 degrees and you get it back to its starting
place. You can see this if you follow the edges of up and the tri-tank or the tree-tanks.
It's a step ever, ever, ever up a very, very, very scale. It's a continuous movement still.
It's like minus nine or ten degrees.
You didn't break it. I have. You didn't. It was a body of ammonia in the pockets.
You can find a pair of gloves.
It's not quite accurate because I saw the most useless pair of gloves.
A kind of veneer or tool-like fabric came with some lights that was installing,
which were awkwardly sized and overly thin.
Again,
you'd have to keep getting grease
like that black garnish,
It looks completely useless for that job, let alone for keeping it warm, when it's 10
degrees up to low.
I actually had no idea.
Temperature is minus 15.
Depends on how cold my ears get.
If they feel they've been burning.
It's really cold.
It's not because someone's talking about them.
Thank you for watching.
