Do you think it is intentional that I try to obfuscate with myself just to make myself
unintelligible?
This is what I do when I take a break.
There's no such thing as sabotage.
Do you think that I try to obfuscate myself and refuse to make the meaning known in a
clear, concise fashion that's making up words that don't need to be named?
I don't need a word for driving by.
It's on a matter of payback when I already have room.
B-R-O-O-M.
Oh, and this is something that re-opened me by fogging myself.
There's a little bit of red and blue shift there, black and blue shift, red and blue shift.
Who calls doctor a better word than red, red, red, red, red, red, red and blue?
You can always put, put, put, put, put, put, put, put like the sounds you always find.
Sounds are the specifics of those sounds.
I don't know the colors.
This is the toddler, in fact.
Boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop!
This way.
Let's go down good.
Now, the...
Nope.
Just a minor bit higher.
Okay.
It goes...
Already? Nope.
This way.
It gets higher pitch when it's toward you, and it loads with wood and wood.
Isn't that great?
I'll try to explain why there's a kind of walking to take you to the world.
There's stoics standing in one place.
That's where I say we're doing this.
Clockwise, in other words, rotation of the up-down axis of the moving upper depth.
And then I say turn.
And I say lean.
I'm actually doing a kind of turning on the forward-backward axis of the moving forward-backward axis.
And then I say squat and move down to the up-down axis.
So I say jump and move up to the up-down axis.
And I say walk and move forward a lot of the forward-backward axis.
And I say start and move backwards a lot of the forward-backwards axis.
And I say stop and move to the lower-celevation axis.
And I move the forward-backward axis.
And I say squat and move down.
I say move fast and then I say walk backwards.
And I say turn and move backwards a lot of the forward-backward axis.
And I think that maybe because of what we thought,
I decided in my home,
because there's nothing there to talk about.
Or I decided to go to the lower-celevation axis.
Nothing to do with that.
And I say that squat and move backwards a lot of the forward-backward axis.
And I say that squat and move backwards a lot of the forward-backward axis.
I say it's going to take humanity 10,000 to million years to reverse engineer
what I'm trying to say, unless I explain it.
Why did I say that you make things more clear when you say there's no such thing as self-sabotage?
And that's the side of taking off my shoes,
picking them up, closing the door for which I had to bend forward
and stand up, which I called rotation on the left-right axis without moving left-right.
And then walking through the door involves moving forward along the forward-backward axis,
while rotating on the up-down axis without moving up or down
in order to open the door and close it behind me.
And I must have done another bow, which was a rotation on the left-right axis without moving left-right
because I see my shoes on the ground and I didn't hear them drop.
And I have a memory of putting them down.
That is the question.
So even if it were true that there were no such thing,
even if it were true that there was no such thing, it sounds better.
Even if it were true that there was no such thing as self-sabotage, it would make no sense to say it.
So what is parapatatic twirly walking?
It's where you're walking forward and then twisting on the up-down axis
and then moving up or down 180 degrees so that you're walking backwards,
which means you're continuing to move forward.
Even though you're facing behind, then you have to do another 180 degrees
in order to continue walking that line,
which reminds me of this joke that I came up with yesterday, or maybe it was a memory.
It was when I was young, I thought, talking backwards,
was like this.
When I was young, I thought talking backwards, talking backwards, was like this.
Was like this?
This is what I thought talking backwards sounded like when I was young.
This is what I thought talking backwards sounded like when I was young.
This is what I thought talking backwards sounded like when I was young.
This is what I thought talking backwards sounded like when I was young.
Why did I think of that?
Because it's another example of moving forward while turning around and continuing to move in the same direction.
Which is another example of a spinor rotation in everyday life on macroscopic scales.
So, no, I don't need to actually go for a walk to feel like I'm walking.
Because I can wiggle like a worm and wobble like a wobble, wobble like a whoop, wobble like a worm.
And when I'm wobbling, wiggling, wobbling, wiggling, walking, wiggling, wiggling, walking, wiggling.
Is rotating on the left right axis? No, that would be correct.
You're moving your shoulders to the left and right.
Which means you're rotating on the forward-backward axis or the moving forward-back.
What do I mean by wiggling like a worm?
I meant to send a kind of sine wave down to your body.
Which means that we are initiating the squat and standing up again before doing some,
which is a kind of somewhat subtle motion up and down axis.
Wiggling like a worm is what I call bouncing.
Wiggling like a worm is what I call swimming like a dolphin rather than a fish.
So what can we say instead of there's no such thing as a self-sabotage?
We can say auto-catalytic sets self-perpetuate.
It's just as tautological. It's framed in a positive light.
And even though I am intentionally trying to remember what I'm saying, it isn't necessary as I am recording this.
Which means I can keep on moving forward without backtracking.
Because if you're trying to increase your reading speed and you've noticed that someone said that reading speed is slowed by backtracking,
then you try to avoid backtracking while you're trying to read.
And it starts to realize there's no such thing as reading without backtracking.
There's no such thing as bad or wrong or incorrect grammar because of synactitude and the amoral nature of grammar.
Amoral nature of language. Syntactitude.
As mentioned by Hofstadter to Dennett.
These are the words that I make when I am alone.
And I think no one is listening.
Which is meaningless junk, Dennett.
And instead of casting your prose before us, why?
What I used to call a junk collection of the mind.
Or a repository.
Or an archive.
Or an ark.
Or a box.
Or a jar.
Or a container.
Or a bowl.
Or a handful. Or a mouthful.
Or a bark.
And one is a bark. A bark is the sound that a dog makes.
There's the cortex of a tree.
And it is another word for boat.
Barko.
Barge.
An ark.
Bark.
Bakhito de pepah.
There's another example.
We say embark and disembark.
This to prove that bark also means boat.
And it can mean both the cortex of a tree.
And the sound of a dog makes.
And so, yeah, even though these words on their own are meaningless,
when they are put together they tell a Bakhito story.
This is the contextualization of narrative with optional starting and stopping.
And the replication crisis.
And the other cookie.
We'll see you in the next video.
